Title: A Girl Voted for You: Social Media App Gas Arrives at AHS
Author: Vismay Ravikumar
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community
Date: JAN 13, 2023
Tags: featured, Gas, social media
Description: The social media app Gas lets users anonymously send compliments, but its popularity and potential for misuse are debated.
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/1666114117-gas.png?resize=383%2C383&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Top Center
ImageCaption 2: Gas Logo
ImageCredit 2: N/A

Ding! You flip over your phone and see a banner pop up on your lock screen: “a girl voted for you.”Tapping on the glass screen, you unlock the app, and a flash of pink radiates over your face.  The phrase “Life of the Party” printed in bold white text fills the screen and a shy smile spreads across your face, making your drab day just a tad better.

Gas is an app where you can anonymously send compliments to your friends. Users are given poll prompts with positive messages like “Sweet as Candy” and are given four of their friends to pick. Whichever friend you pick receives a message in their inbox telling them that someone chose them for that prompt.

Junior Isabella first heard about Gas while on Facetime with her friend. “Let me Gas you up,” her friend had said, and Falco, not having a clue what her friend meant, asked her what Gas was. After hearing about Gas, Falco was intrigued and went on to the App Store to download the app. Falco observed that a lot of the prompts were “stereotypical [questions] you’d ask at a sleepover,” except that you get to respond to these polls any hour of the day instead of only at sleepovers. Despite many prompts being “romantically charged” Falco finds a lot of the prompts amusing, and Falco points out that it is not as if romantically-charged questions don’t come up at sleepovers anyways.

Junior Anton Shvets agrees with much of Falco’s sentiments, stating that a lot of the time, he replies to the polls as a joke. Shvets uses the app when he is bored and notes that it is a great way to boost self-esteem, a facet that Shvets feels health teachers would definitely like.

Although there are many positive ways the app can be used, school social worker David Hughes points out that there are a couple of drawbacks. Hughes notes that flames, notifications for each compliment you receive, can be addictive, and oftentimes students can be drawn to the app, constantly checking their inbox and being distracted from what’s going on around them. Using flames as a measure of self-esteem is a treacherous way to measure one’s worth. Furthermore, several prompts traverse a slippery slope; for example, one prompt asks whether a user only shops at Brandy Melville, a clothing store that has only one size, catering exclusively to skinnier women, a questionable poll that could invoke body-shaming.

The app mirrors other social media platforms, like the TBH app, released in 2017, which has an uncanny resemblance to Gas but died out shortly after its release. Gas is in many ways like YikYak, the infamous app meant to let users converse with anyone in a five-mile radius but ended up as a brewing pot for unfounded rumors, except in a much more positive light where rumors are replaced with compliments.

Despite these limitations, sophomore Emma Hughes said that she would open up the app “if she was having a bad day,” and seeing all of the compliments would boost her self-esteem. Hughes wished that she could write prompts herself and share them with friends but notes that many people would add insults to the app instead. Hughes commented that Gas grew like BeReal, spreading like wildfire among students at Andover High, with over 500 Andover High students on the app.

Falco notes, however, that Gas will not likely be a “permanent” fixture here at Andover High. Many who have downloaded the app have stopped using it, and Hughes concurs with Falco’s point, predicting that many students will slowly delete the app after it lays dormant on their phones for a while.

“If you’re using [Gas] to truly compliment others, the app has value and can be used in a positive light,” said Hughes. “But if it becomes a game to see who can have the most ‘Gas’, then that’s going to end up more harmful than [helpful].”