Title: Actress Julia Kole Pursues Public Health
Author: Angela Mac
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Arts, Community
Date: JAN 13, 2022
Tags: ahs, Arts, featured, health, julia kole, profile, students
Description: Julia Kole, the lead from the recent play Mamma Mia, plans to major in the field of public health rather than performing arts.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/angela-mac-julia-kole-student-spotlight-1.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/angela-mac-julia-kole-student-spotlight.jpg?resize=3024%2C4032&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: N/A
ImageCredit 2: Angela Mac

Julia Kole, the lead from the recent play Mamma Mia, plans to major in the field of public health rather than performing arts.

Kole is a senior and a widely known performer at Andover High School. Being a performer takes a lot of time and work, and Kole doesn’t know if that’s something she wants. She stated, “You have to know what you want and you have to go at it full force.” She may love theater, but she isn’t interested in that type of tough and intense environment.

Kole takes interest in public health for a multitude of reasons. She has always been fascinated by different diseases and loves measuring and experimenting; however, what she loves most is helping people. Though she doesn’t plan on majoring in theater, she plans to continue it on the side. All the colleges Kole applied to have acapella and theater groups, as they are a “requirement for [her].” Another option she considered was either minoring or double majoring in music; however, it would be along the lines of music production or theory instead of performing arts.

Kole’s love for theater started in second grade. She always enjoyed the feeling of being on stage. Though Kole’s been on stage countless times, she still gets nervous because she wants to give the audience a good show. The people in the Show Choir and the AHS Drama Guild have always been family for Kole. After rehearsals, she would hang out with her fellow cast members in the dressing room. “I talk to them a lot,” Kole said. “They were my people. I like to think I was kinda their person. But you gotta find your people.”

To students that are interested in doing theater in high school, she said, “It never hurts to try.” Kole explained that theater is a great community and that in a tough environment like high school, it’s good to have that kind of support. It also opens up opportunities for students interested in theater, show choir, and performing arts.

Besides acting and performing, Kole loves playing guitar, songwriting, and learning American Sign Language (ASL). She loves ASL because “you have to be so expressive when you’re signing to get the proper meaning across and I just love being expressive.”

Being expressive is something Kole excels at and is one of the reasons why she loves theater and performing. Though Kole has plans in the field of public health, theater and performing arts will always be a part of her life.