Title: AHS Students Showcase School Community Involvement
Author: Shreya Soni
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Clubs, Community, Education
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, featured, school
Description: Though often confused as the same thing, the Student Government Association SGA and class boards are two different leadership bodies that tackle different issues in AHS.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/screenshot-2024-11-12-203716.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Though often confused as the same thing, the Student Government Association (SGA) and class boards are two different leadership bodies that tackle different issues in AHS.

There are a multitude of opportunities at AHS to get involved in the community as a leader, two of which are SGA and class boards. SGA is responsible for solving problems involving the school as a whole and prevalent town issues, while class boards aim to solve problems involving their respective grades. If you are a student interested in tackling the issues concerning the entire student body, SGA is the perfect place to showcase this passion.

“One of the responsibilities of the student government is to participate in 10 community events,” said senior Daniel Shin, the SGA president. These events include attending a School Committee meeting to gain more knowledge about problems that the student body and faculty have faced, and the annual holiday fun drive, which provides gifts for low-income students at AHS during the holiday season. A notable event that SGA is responsible for organizing is the pep rally, which Shin mentions has benefitted the student body by fostering school spirit and a sense of community.

As a four-year member of the SGA, Shin has seen the positive impact that it has had on school rules and his peers, emphasizing the pivotal role that SGA plays in vocalizing student opinions. “We’re the only club that revises school policies and has direct communication with administration,” he said, “[and we have] helped to get feedback on policies and formulate them”. One of these policies that SGA has been instrumental in modifying is the bullying policy, which can be viewed online in the student handbook.

However, if you’re a student wishing to take on a less ambitious goal and provide an impact specific to your grade, joining a class board is a great option.

“Some of the responsibilities of the boards are to be consistent with attending meetings and to be prepared to share ideas,” said Akshara Vijay, a sophomore and member of the Sophomore Board. A member of the Freshman Board last year, Vijay decided to join the board once again so that she could work with other motivated students to solve the pressing issues in her grade and plan out events for them.

“Last year, the freshman board planned out the freshman dance,” Vijay mentioned. “And this year, we are going to do fundraisers to raise money for events like field trips, such as a field trip to Boston or Six Flags.” Another initiative that the board has been interested in pursuing is finding volunteer opportunities for students, such as working at the snack shack at football games and setting up a donation booth during lunch time to promote community events.

As a result of the dedication and perseverance of the class boards, Vijay has noticed that her grade has become “more inclusive and united,” with many individuals fostering friendships with other students that they hadn’t interacted with before.

Because the deadline to apply for these committees has passed for this year, students can support them by attending their respective events. Additionally, interested students can find out more information by asking the faculty advisors or student members and applying next year in September.