Title: BeReal Blows Up On Social Media at AHS
Author: Saarvi Deshwal, Samantha Sun
Position: Layout Editor, Social Media Manager
Category: Community
Date: NOV 22, 2022
Tags: ahs, andover, app, be real, bereal, social media
Description: The new social media app to take in-the-moment pictures, BeReal, has become increasingly popular with students at AHS.

The new social media app to take in-the-moment pictures, BeReal, has become increasingly popular with students at AHS.

Students ranging from freshmen to seniors are using the app. BeReal is frequently compared to other social media apps such as Snapchat and Instagram, in which you take pictures, share, and post. However, on platforms like Instagram, people only post what they want others to see, which a lot of the time means edited and filtered photos and videos. The reason BeReal has gotten so popular with students is because “you take a picture that’s unedited or anything, it’s like be-real; you can’t make any edits,” said Aneesa Hazarika, a freshman who uses BeReal. As the app name suggests, users are being real by capturing the moment they are in without changing anything.

Vivian Tang, a senior who has heard of BeReal said, “[The] connection that they get with other people whenever they post pictures… it’s a really good way to show people ‘Oh I’m doing this.’ I think that’s the feature that everyone likes about it.”

Every day, users take one picture at a certain time depending on their timezone. The main point of the app is for users to share what they are doing in the moment with others. This new idea is one of the main reasons that BeReal is gaining popularity. There is also an interesting concept for capturing photos: you can take your daily photo using both the front and back camera. In the *My Friends* tab, users can see previous photos in a memory album and your friends’ posts. In the *Discovery* tab, people can also see posts from people from all around the world or their friends’, as well as comment with pictures or emojis on them.

As a new app, there are still many things that could be changed or added. “I can definitely see it being developed in the future, maybe becoming more global, and more people will download it over the next few years as people get more familiar with it,” Tang said.