Title: Bledsoe’s Back is Back, Science Teacher Returns After Strenuous Surgery
Author: Kaveri Dole
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAR 17, 2025
Tags: education, learning, news, teaching, writing
Description: Ralph Bledsoe, a beloved science teacher at AHS, recently took a two-month leave of absence due to surgery on his spine.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/bledsoe.jpeg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Ralph Bledsoe, a beloved science teacher at AHS, recently took a two-month leave of absence due to surgery on his spine.

Bledsoe reluctantly left AHS from October 31 until December 20. This time included surgery preparation, a 5-hour surgery, and over a month of recovery.

“I could not [walk] without my feet disappearing [and it felt] like walking on stumps,” said Bledsoe. Bledsoe was having trouble simply walking from his car into the school, and had to get permission to park directly outside of his class to reduce the distance of this simple yet agonizing experience he had to overcome twice a day.

The source of this issue stemmed from Bledsoe’s spine, where three

inter-vertebral discs were missing, causing movement in his vertebrae, leading to several issues.

At first, Bledsoe experienced extreme symptoms such as his legs and feet becoming numb after standing up still for prolonged periods, hindering his ability to walk and get around.

It became increasingly evident for Bledsoe that action would need to be taken. At first, he tried a chiropractor, who said that his symptoms were too severe and that he would need to turn to a surgeon.

Bledsoe repeatedly expressed his gratitude for the extensive research that Massachusetts General Hospital had been doing. “Getting into Massachusetts General Hospital was one of the best things because they are a research teaching hospital,” Bledsoe said.

Researchers were using a new robot for Bledsoe’s case that read MRI bone densities to determine the best location for the eight screws that were to be inserted into his vertebrae. Thus guaranteeing the spinal structural support that Bledsoe had been lacking.

“On Halloween night I was carved like a pumpkin because the day of my surgery was Halloween day,” Bledsoe said regarding his lengthy five-hour surgery. “The operating room was as large as a physics lab but stuffed to the gills with equipment.”

In Blesoe’s absence, He left his students under the instruction of Cole Hauser, a substitute teacher. “This is the first time I’ve had experience taking over someone’s class like that,” Hauser said. “I think it’s really good to help out where you can for teachers. These life events can take you by surprise.”

However, Hauser seamlessly handled the transition for freshmen in physical science between teachers, ultimately extracting a beneficial experience for himself and his students. “They made that transition really easy, ” Hauser said, referring to his students. “I enjoyed it and had a great time.”

Hauser studied Marine Biology and teaching in college. However, he received glowing reviews from his students in his Physical Science class. “I think Mr. Hauser prepared us really well for his tests so I don’t think my education was really impacted,” said Ishwa Dharan, a freshman currently in Bledsoe’s physical science class.

“He makes the class really fun so I was just glad he was back,” Dharan said. It’s not a secret that Bledsoe is adored and revered by students and staff. “He’s a pretty happy guy,” said Sydney Steddom, a sophomore and a former student of Bledsoe.