Title: Boys Basketball Team Have Championship Hopes
Author: Jillian Slotnick
Position: Sports Editor
Category: Articles
Date: MAR 17, 2025
Tags: basketball, college-basketball, nba, ncaa, Sports
Description: The Varsity Boys’ Basketball team had a strong start to the 2024-2025 season with a streak of seven wins and a first-place finish at the Commonwealth Motors Christmas Tournament.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/img_3409.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

The Varsity Boys’ Basketball team had a strong start to the 2024-2025 season with a streak of seven wins and a first-place finish at the Commonwealth Motors Christmas Tournament.

They qualified for the state tournament with a 14-7 win-loss record and have a strong core of seniors who led their team well throughout the season: Owen Foley, Salvatore Concemi, Jack Cooper, Cameron Gath, and James Flagg.

David Fazio, the longtime coach of the boys’ basketball team, made a point to give credit to this year’s seniors, praising their effort and dependability. “I think the one thing that we have this year is that our seniors are great leaders,” he said. “They always come to work in games and at practice. They show up every single day. They work hard, have great attitudes, and try to do everything [they’re] asked to do. I’m so proud of [them].”

Additionally, the team won against many of their closest rivals in the first seven games of the season. A majority came during the Commonwealth Motors Tournament: 74-68 against Beverly, 65-60 against Central Catholic, and then 63-59 against Methuen to close out the final. Although Andover was already a stand-out team, their performance in the tournament demonstrated their talent and depth, allowing it to be showcased at the state-wide level. At that point, they were ranked second in Massachusetts, although their ranking has now dropped.

Even though the season has been difficult for the team since their win in the Commonwealth Motors tournament with seven losses and seven wins, they are still hopeful. Jack Cooper, a senior and three-year team member, said, “This upward momentum has been kind of started through our energy in practice. We bring positivity and great vibes during each practice, which brings up the team morale and we all buy it: the game and the game plan. Just our overall energy is where this momentum and streak is coming from. We could definitely still make this into a championship.”

Building on their past successes, the team was focused on consistency and refinement as they approached the final stretch of the season. Despite setbacks, they remained committed to strengthening their gameplay and making the most of their year. According to Cooper, each practice and game is an opportunity to sharpen their skills needed for a deep playoff run. Their recent performances have shown glimpses of their full potential and now with playoffs upon them, they are confident that they have peaked at the right time.

The team is continually improving and they still have a great chance to make a run in the state tournament. “We had a great start,” said Fazio, “We won the Christmas tournament in the month of January, [but at that point we still hadn’t] been at our best yet, which is good because we [were able to work on] some things.” According to Fazio, it is better if a team reaches their peak at the end of February, when playoffs start: “We’ve got to get back to improving day in and day out.”

The team has already made it through the first round of the playoffs with a victory against Boston College High School and faced Braintree this past Tuesday.