Title: Coach Perry Returns to Lead Andover Football, Teach Classes
Author: Sanjith Kalpat
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Faculty, Sports
Date: OCT 04, 2024
Tags: ahs, district, Faculty, Sports
Description: Longtime coach and teacher E.J. Perry returns to Andover High football and West Elementary, despite plans to retire.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/coachperryreturns-photo-.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/coachperryreturns-photo-.jpg?resize=3557%2C2668&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Coach Perry celebrates after wide reciever Julian Martinez catches a touchdown, putting Andover up 21-6 versus Lowell.
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Sanjith Kalpat

Perry, who has been an influential figure in Andover’s athletic program — specifically in football and volleyball — and educational communities for over two decades, had initially planned to retire from both teaching and coaching.  However, in an unexpected turn, he is back this fall as head coach of Andover High School’s football team and teaching fifth grade at West Elementary.

While Perry’s retirement initially made waves, the full picture is more complex.

According to Wayne “Pug” Puglisi, AHS’ Athletic Director, Perry’s long-time decision to retire from teaching was more final than his coaching role.

“He’s met his teaching retirement responsibilities,” Puglisi confirmed.

Despite this, Perry is currently in the classroom at West Elementary School right now, substituting another fifth-grade teacher, Scott Price, who has been out on medical leave.

As for coaching, Perry was unsure.

“I would say that he never really left [coaching football],” Puglisi mentioned. “He and I had conversations about what he wanted to try to do, whether or not he wanted to go hang out with his grandson down in Florida or if he wanted to be with his son who was playing professionally, [or] to see his [other] son who is also just starting his college career…We had prepared for him to not coach again this fall. But it turns out that he [decided to coach after all].”

For Perry, returning to both teaching and coaching wasn’t a difficult choice. “For coaching, I love the competitive stuff,” he said. “Teaching, I love getting kids to do things they think they can’t do.”

The AHS football team, which has long benefited from Perry’s leadership, continues to push. Along with his hard-working assistant staff, they aim to continue the success from the past two years.

One of Perry’s standout players, junior defensive lineman Jan Carlos Aquino, expressed, “It is great to have Coach Perry back at it again. He is a very good coach, and I was excited to hear that he was back.”

Additionally, Puglisi emphasized how Perry’s presence had always been about more than just winning games, saying that he cares for the athletes, looks out for their best interests, and builds great relationships with the players. According to Puglisi, he’s able to balance the things that happen from academic, social, and athletic standpoints.

As for what lies beyond this season, Perry himself remains noncommittal in his future with volleyball.

“[The teaching] part of his career is wrapping up, but the coaching side? That’s a private discussion between Perry and me. We’ll see,” said Puglisi.

Puglisi ended, “If you count the number of years he’s coached and the number of years he’s taught, the generations of people that have been in his classroom and on his fields, I think is immense. I can’t even begin to tell you the impact that he’s had on all of those students and all of those athletes’ lives. It’s too big to count.”