Title: Election Literacy Among AHS Seniors Higher Compared to Previous Years
Author: Ella Hu
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community, Trending
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: Many students at AHS plan on participating and actively voting in the upcoming election on November 5, and AHS elective Democracy and Media Literacy provides students with further information on the topic.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/electoralcollegemap2024.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Many students at AHS plan on participating and actively voting in the upcoming election on November 5, and AHS elective Democracy and Media Literacy provides students with further information on the topic.

Senior Kara Stefani, along with other seniors who will be voting in the upcoming election, recalled learning about the voting process mostly from their parents. The idea of voting seems daunting at first, but Stefani said her parents will guide her through the voting process. Other students enrolled in the Democracy and Media Literacy class are learning about the process as well through projects and finding their own political stance.

“I listen to the news—mostly CNN every morning—and that’s where I get most of my information from. However, I usually just get the information from my parents, who were the ones that pushed me to vote in the first place,” Stefani said.

Students in the AHS elective course Democracy and Media Literacy taught by Mary Robb learn about the U.S. elections and gain an in-depth understanding of United States democracy, and how the election functions. “The elective is designed to teach students about the election and other parts of our democracy,” Robb said. “This is so when they leave high school, they can be well-informed and active members of their community.”

According to Robb, Many students who do not have guidance and are not well-informed about the election process tend to back away from voting, one of the most crucial parts of our democracy. She observed that one of the most critical issues behind election illiteracy is the increase in AP classes. Since most students try to take as many AP classes as possible for college, they tend to overlook electives that will prove useful for them in participating in their community in the future.

With the amount of false information surrounding the election spreading on social media and online, students can easily be influenced. “Essentially, you learn how to keep track of what the government is doing in the class, with the goal for students to find their political voice,” Robb said. “We talk about what it is to be conservative and what it is to be liberal, and we hope they can navigate their way through the sea of political chaos that has been going on and find their own political philosophy.”