Title: ESIC Students Bring Youth Sustainability Fair to life
Author: Janaesa Macasaet
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 20, 2025
Tags: climate change, education, environment, news, sustainability
Description: The second annual Youth Sustainability Fair was held at the Cormier Youth Center on Saturday, April 26.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/img_4482-1.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/img_4486.jpg?resize=640%2C480&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: High school, middle school, and elementary school students at the fair
ImageCredit 2: N/A

The second annual Youth Sustainability Fair was held at the Cormier Youth Center on Saturday, April 26. Organized by seniors Lincoln Pekock and Sarah Waters, the fair aimed to promote youth work in climate activism.

With around 200 attendees, the two-hour fair included a sports gear swap, toy swap, clothing swap, and interactive booths. Pekock and Waters organized the fair through the Environmental Sustainability Internship Course (ESIC), partnering with Andover WECAN. Science teacher and ESIC advisor Melanie Cutler found the experience to be hopeful.

“Often when we hear about climate change, we hear about the bad news,” said Cutler. “The point of this fair is to share all the good news. There are a lot of great things happening right here in our community that I think a lot of people don’t know about.”

Apart from ESIC students, members of the Environmental Club, Garden Club, Fashion Club and AP Environmental Science students attended. Those from organizations and surrounding schools such as Phillips Academy and Greater Lawrence Technical School also came, offering new insights to AHS students.

“It was impactful…it’s great to see new ideas, new perspectives. There were ways for us to improve that were mentioned,” Grant Gaden, a sophomore and Environmental Club booth volunteer said. “It was great to meet people who had similar interests, who brought new ideas to the table that I hadn’t considered when it comes to sustainability.”

Sharing a similar sentiment, Pekock said, “It was really great to get to see into the middle school and elementary school education system [and] how they teach about climate change and things such as that.”

The fair opened the floor to people of all backgrounds to discuss sustainability—among them was Massachusetts State Representative Tram Nguyen, who presented to attendees.

Cutler said, “She came and gave a nice moving speech…and was really encouraging…she’s now working [at a] state government level on a lot of sustainability initiatives.”

For students interested in climate activism, ESIC offers a range of opportunities, whether it be planning the Sustainability Fair or writing articles for a non-profit. The course encourages students to use their skills to make a real-world impact. Waters aims for her and Pekock’s project (the fair) to have created a positive impact in the community, and reduce worries.

“I’m sure there’s a lot of climate anxiety, especially being in Massachusetts where there is a lot of recognition for it, but I would hope that people gain some hope just to see how many initiatives there are,” said Waters.