Title: ICDC Bound: Students Head to International DECA Competition
Author: Kaveri Dole
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: DECA, international, career development, conference, business, competition
Description: Twelve Andover High School students will attend the prestigious DECA International Career Development Conference in Orlando.

Twelve students from Andover High School will attend the 2025 DECA International Career Development Conference (ICDC) in Orlando, Florida, from April 26 to 29.

ICDC is the international final competition for DECA, featuring various business-related categories. Andover students competing in ICDC had to first qualify at the district conference, then at the state conference.

Districts occurred from January 8 to 10, where only the top seven teams in each category advanced to States from February 27 to March 1. Likewise, the same rigorous selection process is applied at states, where the top seven teams advance to the international level. This makes ICDC extremely competitive and selective.

DECA competitors participate in two distinct types of event categories: role-plays and written projects.

With role-plays, students are given a prompt at the conference. Then, they are given thirty minutes to develop a marketing plan specified by the prompt. Directly after, they are given a maximum of fifteen minutes to present their plan to a judge.

Sophomore Ashley Barton and her partner, sophomore Areeta Faiz, are competing in the “Travel and Tourism Marketing Team Decision-Making” category at ICDC, one of the role-play-based categories. “I’ve gotten a much better grasp of what DECA is and what you can gain from it, and my presenting skills have improved a lot,” Barton said regarding her experience at states.

DECA Co-president and senior Marina Ten remarked on how much she has learned about performing well at conferences and role-plays throughout her four years in the club. “The biggest lesson I learned was that preparation is key to success,” she said. “The more practice role-plays I did, the more confident I was going into the competition, and the better I performed.”

The other category type is written projects. These include writing a paper and presenting it at conferences. Sophomores Tvisha Bansal and Rebecca John are competing together in the “Independent Business Plan” category, where they have been developing an original business proposal in the form of a paper. “It’s a lot of work, but I enjoy it,” said Bansal.

In addition, some categories require participants to take a test before each conference. This test is typically administered during a predetermined online testing window. The test factors into your overall score, in addition to the role-play or the written presentation.

Beyond the competition, DECA conferences provide invaluable networking opportunities. “Most of it is talking and meeting people,” said Bansal.

Most DECA conferences follow this networking-focused format, with plenty of downtime and abundant opportunities for students to talk with people from different schools. “It’s such a cool way to make friends and meet people,” said John, emphasizing the social and professional benefits of attending.

This year, for AHS students, going to ICDC comes with a significant fee—$1,800 per participant. This fee includes amenities such as flights and hotel rooms as well as a trip to Walt Disney World and Universal Studios. However, students must budget separately for food during their six days of traveling.