Title: In a One, Two, Three!: Students in Andover High School’s Orchestra mentor Lowell Students in music
Author: Anika Nagle
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community
Date: JAN 13, 2023
Tags: music, orchestra
Description: Andover students mentor Lowell youth in a mutually rewarding music program.

The cascade of notes coalesces into gentle music as fingers glide over taut strings. The bow slides over a mahogany violin and a sweeping crescendo rises to accompany the cello. Lowell High School resounds with a glorious harmony as the astounding talent of our school nourishes a love of music within the students of Lowell.

With whole hearts and minds abuzz, Andover orchestra students mentor kids in Lowell as part of Afternoon in the Arts. This program is an initiative wherein Lowell elementary and middle school students are coached in a wide array of musical disciplines—band, chorus, dance, and orchestra—free of charge in regards to both the tutelage and the cost of instruments.

With varying degrees of experience, yet with constant smiles and eagerness, students exploring string instruments gather at the Lowell High school twice a week. They are taught fundamentals, such as scales and notes, and proceed to reinforce their lessons by playing assorted pieces ranging in difficulty based on a students’ prior experience.

However, it is more than just the Lowell students who benefit from these afternoons. Andover mentors benefit as well. Teaching is a rewarding experience, and there is no doubt a unique joy stemming from the shared laughter and smiles in a mentor-mentee relationship.

“I sometimes see them getting this ‘aha’ moment, like, ‘Oh, I get this rhythm,’ or ‘Oh, I finally know this note,’” Vivian Tang, an Andover High School senior, said. “This is my first time teaching, so for them to get something, it’s a big accomplishment.”

“It’s nice to see them learn something, and the smile on their faces,” senior Elizabeth Shin added. “When they are happy, you are happy too.”

Upon seeing your mentees face light up with joy, there is an indescribable pride that comes as a result. However, this is a pride earned through hard work and difficulties. “In addition to helping the Lowell students, they are also learning the art of teaching,” Dr. Derek Voigt, the orchestra director at AHS and a faculty member at Afternoon in the Arts stated. They are “realizing what’s going well, what’s not going well, and learning from that,” he continued. An Andover mentor echoed a similar sentiment, saying “You are learning along the way too sometimes, each group has its own different needs, and you have to make sure you accommodate to each of those needs…that could be one-on-one or maybe getting everyone together [in] sectionals[groups characterized by specific instruments].”

Afternoon in the Arts is an environment which forges cherished relationships through both dedicated guidance as well as treasured memories. “During Halloween, the first day that we had come, we were giving candy to the kids… that was really fun… we got to bond together,” Elizabeth Shin said, smiling.

However, more than celebrations and holidays are the day-to-day interactions at Afternoon in the Arts that create fond recollections for students of both schools. Madeline Shin, another Andover student, said, “I just love talking to them, they are very sweet and they have a lot of stories to tell, and it’s just nice to talk to them one on one.”

These students are gearing up towards an upcoming concert and excitement builds up as new pieces are introduced. First-year and second-year students will be playing different songs, with the former focusing on holiday songs to reflect the Christmas season. As of now, their pieces aren’t set in stone, yet we can expect some holiday classics. “When they first played Jingle Bells, and were told ‘Okay, you are doing that at the concert,’ they were like ‘Oh no!’” Voigt joked, “[but] then they played it through all the way.”  As for the second year students, they are challenging themselves with more complex pieces for the concert, such as “M” [sic] and “Russian Music Box”. “M” is a fast paced song for which students will have to master their scales and notes to create the intricate music. However, the challenge is its own reward, and utmost dedication can be seen on both ends — from both the Andover students and their mentees.