Title: Lady Warriors Claim State Championship Game
Author: Jocelyn Barton, Ethan Zabar
Position: Online Editor, Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Events, Sports
Date: MAY 31, 2023
Tags: basketball, girls basketball
Description: On March 17, Saint Patrick’s Day, Andover High School’s Girls Basketball team left the season undefeated, carrying their sixth title of State Champions against Bishop Feehan.

On March 17, Saint Patrick’s Day, Andover High School’s Girls Basketball team left the season undefeated, carrying their sixth title of State Champions against Bishop Feehan.

On Friday evening, the Tsongas Center was packed with eager AHS and Bishop Feehan students. AHS fans sat up until the last row in the arena, watching as their beloved team fought for the win.

Seniors Amelia Hanscom, Anna Foley, Kathleen Yates, Marrissa Kobelski, and Ari White finished their senior year basketball season with a final score of 55-51. “To finish off my senior year with the state title means a lot for me,” said Hanscom.

The AHS girls basketball players have gotten extremely close while fighting to keep their undefeated title. Pasta dinners and team bonding activities have kept their friendships strong throughout the season.“We will definitely all be friends for a very long time,” said Hanscom. “We’ve grown really close and will continue to have good times together in the summer and even when we are in college”.

When thinking back to the TD Garden loss, which was during the seniors’ freshman year, there was a huge parallel for the team. Hanscom mentioned that playing at the Tsongas Center “felt very similar to freshman year and like a full circle moment… We got our state championship opportunity taken from us freshman year and now senior year we get to claim the whole thing.”

The emotions could be felt through the stadium as the Lady Warriors were able to hold the championship award as they once lost three years ago.

Coach Alan Hibino of the Girls Varsity Basketball team also feels very accomplished and proud of his players after the season and impressive win. “I am very proud to be the coach of the Lady Warriors. All of the girls’ hard work, dedication and sacrifice was validated with our championship victory. I am very happy to see our seniors be able to go out on top as state champions.”

Through the struggles and triumph, “the girls were great teammates and support systems for each other all season” said Hibino. Hanscom commented that the Lady Warriors could not have continued carrying their undefeated title without supporting one another.

Hibino also thanked the AHS community. “Thank you to the Jungle, the student body, all of the faculty and administrators who have supported, encouraged and appreciated us all year long. We love representing AHS on the court, off the court and in the community.”