Title: New Principal Settles Into AHS
Author: Anya Gorovits
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community, Faculty
Date: OCT 04, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, profile, school
Description: D’Andrea first came to AHS last spring, and after applying for the position of principal and being hired, he spent several months adjusting to the school over the summer.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/new-principal-news-story.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/new-principal-news-story-1.jpg?resize=4032%2C3024&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Principal D’Andrea gets to know senior John Nies during lunch
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Anya Gorovits

D’Andrea first came to AHS last spring, and after applying for the position of principal and being hired, he spent several months adjusting to the school over the summer. Now, just over a month into school, D’Andrea has already left many positive impressions and made several beneficial changes. “I really like our new principal so far,” said sophomore Anika Abbot.

D’Andrea decided to apply to AHS and came for an interview with students, teachers, parents, and office staff last April. He was offered the position after his finalist interview and moved to Andover in June. D’Andrea loves the town so far, and especially how committed Andover is to its public schools.

“There is so much community support for Andover public schools in general…and that’s not common.” Massachusetts is also the coldest place D’Andrea has ever lived in, “I’m interested [and] nervous,” he said, interested about our winter sports teams but nervous for our snowy winters.

D’Andrea has already made two important changes that are strongly appreciated around the school. Math teacher Krista Hibino, along with most students, finds the extended passing period time very helpful. Another vital change is the loss of the tardy line, letting students get to class faster. “I feel like a lot of time was wasted in just standing in that line,” said Abbot.

D’Andrea has ambitious goals as principal. He’s already working on learning the names of all AHS staff and students, something he’s done at every school he’s worked at. D’Andrea also wants to make every AHS student feel like a part of the Andover community, no matter what activities they are a part of. D’Andrea spends a lot of time working on this by talking to and getting to know students during lunch and before school. ”I think it’s sweet that he greets everyone in the morning,” said Abbot. He also comes to sports games, both at home and away, posting clips of them on his Instagram page.

D’Andrea’s Instagram page is a part of his main goal of communication. He finds it very important to get word out in a school as big as Andover. So, he’s started leaving automated messages for parents on Sundays and will continue doing so all year long. Hibino added, ”I’ve really enjoyed working with him, and I appreciate that he’s very communicative.”

D’Andrea has enjoyed his time at AHS so far and is looking forward to getting to know the students, school, and town better. “Everybody’s been so friendly. It really seems like an incredible place,” he commented.