Title: New Science Department Head Introduced to APS
Author: Anya Gorovits
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 29, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: AHS assistant superintendent Julie Riley recently sent out information on Dr. Tammy Fay, who will take Dr. Steven Sanborn’s spot as the Andover Public Schools’ (APS) science department head.
ImageFile 1: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/screenshot-2025-05-29-at-10.13.52e280afam.png?resize=992%2C1216&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 1: Middle Center
ImageCaption 1: Dr. Fay, the new AHS Science Program Coordinator
ImageCredit 1: N/A

AHS assistant superintendent Julie Riley recently sent out information on Dr. Tammy Fay, who will take Dr. Steven Sanborn’s spot as the Andover Public Schools’ (APS) science department head.

After many years working with APS, Sanborn has decided to retire. Fay, his position’s successor, is coming to Andover from the Masconomet Regional School District. She has a lot of experience in education as well as in STEM subjects. Sanborn and Fay are now working to ensure a smooth transition.

Fay spent 28 years working in Masconomet and most recently served as their Science, Technology, and Engineering Department chair for grades 7-12. She holds multiple science and education-based degrees from the Rochester Institute of Technology, Boston University, Salem State University, and UMass Lowell.

Fay is very passionate about her work and is eager to help students become their best selves. “She is just as passionate about supporting educators as she is about teaching students—helping others grow in their craft is one of the [main] joys of her work” added Riley. Riley added that Fay specializes in incorporating engineering into high school science curriculums.

Fay expressed her excitement about working in a district that supports learning both in and outside of the classroom. She’s gotten to know and become very impressed with the AHS science team. She first learned about Andover’s reputation through her husband, a proud AHS graduate.

“I am excited to become part of a forward-thinking district that values innovation, collaboration, and interdisciplinary learning,” Fay said.

Fay is very excited for her future position in Andover. Outside of her work, she enjoys reading, traveling, practicing pilates, the outdoors, and riding roller coasters.