Title: Online Football Tickets: Why?
Author: Xander MacKay-Kao
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Sports
Date: NOV 22, 2022
Tags: football, Sports
Description: Andover High School has begun to sell football game tickets online in addition to in person this past year to prepare families for tournament games.

Andover High School has begun to sell football game tickets online in addition to in person this past year to prepare families for tournament games.

After years of only selling tickets at the door, the football team is providing the option of purchasing tickets online ahead of time. According to Wayne Puglisi, the new athletic director at AHS, this is because the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association, or the MIAA, has mandated that all ticket sales be online for the tournament games. They wanted to prepare families for purchasing tournament game tickets. For games in which the ticket sales are dictated by the MIAA, the pricing may increase slightly.

When asked about how the new system was for the school, Puglisi said, “I would say that it’s equitable, and it’s easy to process, and we just get a check from the company that manages the online ticket sales for us.” There is much less difficulty involved in managing the sales when it comes to online tickets, as the school does not need to do much.

The system is undoubtedly more efficient. Getting people into the games is much faster than before. People used to have to spend time buying the ticket up front with cash. Now, all you have to do in order to get in is hold up your phone with a pre-purchased one. No longer having to manage the envelopes of money sped up the process greatly.

Kerry Cashman, the assistant athletic director, said that if we were still only using the cash-only system at the game against Central Catholic High School, “We would not have been able to get everyone in until probably at least the start of the second quarter.” It’s difficult to say if there was a change in ticket sales, as support for the football team varies from year to year.

Junior Noah Summers remarked on the new system. He said, “I like it, it’s more convenient.” He continued on to say that he enjoys the speed that comes with the online tickets. He’s able to get into games noticeably quicker.