Title: Oval Office Showdown: Trump’s Diplomatic Disaster
Author: Anya Gorovits
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Opinion, Trending
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: A disastrous meeting in the Oval Office damages US-Ukraine relations and raises concerns among allies.

“I think we’ve seen enough. This is going to be great television.”

With these words, President Trump concluded February 28’s disastrous meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy—a meeting that was intended to strengthen alliances but instead heavily damaged them. Taking place in the Oval Office, a room representing utmost diplomacy, decorum, and statesmanship, the meeting was anything but diplomatic.

Zelenskyy arrived in Washington, D.C. on the morning of February 28. He then met with Trump, Vice President JD Vance, and other US government officials. Reporters from all over the world were also present, bombarding the presidents with questions throughout the meeting. The leaders aimed to discuss continued US support for Ukraine, establish plans on ending the war, and agree on a US mineral deal on Ukraine’s resources. However, the meeting was far from productive, with Trump quickly launching a personal attack against Zelenskyy, Ukraine, and former President Biden rather than trying to stop the war.

“It was appalling seeing supposedly the leader of the free world, the most powerful person in the world, act like a little child,” expressed half-Ukrainian sophomore Armand Omelko. The end of the meeting was so full of interruptions and insults on Trump’s part that it indeed sounded more like children fighting than a discussion among the highest officials of two nations. Not only was Trump constantly interrupting his guest, but he actually yelled at Zelenskyy for trying to speak about his own country’s opinions.

“You don’t have the cards right now” was the catchphrase Trump repeatedly used to interrupt Zelenskyy. While speaking to a person tasked with one of the most difficult careers, the president of a country at war, Trump called Zelenskyy’s job a game of cards.

The meeting started off all right, with the presidents calmly answering the press’s questions. Yet things began to escalate when Republican reporter Brian Glenn asked Zelenskyy why he didn’t wear a suit to the meeting. The disrespect of such a question is unbelievable. Not only is there a valid reason for Zelenskyy’s outfit—in the duration of the war, the president has been wearing army attire to show support for his military—but the question seems incredibly hypocritical considering how US government official Elon Musk has, on numerous occasions, worn very informal attire to the Oval Office.

What I don’t understand is why the international press was at the meeting in the first place. The conference was meant to decide the outcome of millions of lives, which doesn’t seem like something that should be showcased to the entire world.

“I was horrified by what I was watching. I just couldn’t believe this was playing out in front of cameras in the Oval Office,” said AHS history teacher Kathryn Vives.

It is obvious that Trump simply wanted to humiliate Zelenskyy. As seen in Trump’s quote about making “great television,” he only wanted more attention for himself. “He just wants to be seen on the news, not to actually accomplish anything,” Omelko said.

Yet the most disrespectful comment came from Vance when he asked Zelenskyy, “Have you said thank you once?” He then attacked Zelenskyy for not being grateful for the US’s aid, which is false. According to UNITED 24, the official fundraising platform of the Ukrainian government, Zelenskyy has publicly thanked the US at least 94 times in speeches and social media posts. Yet Vance still demanded that Zelenskyy thank Trump over and over. When Zelenskyy tried to return to the subject of fixing the war, Trump interrupted him with “No. You’ve done a lot of talking,” as if he was shutting down a child’s remarks and not a president’s.

“They want him to grovel,” said history teacher Lauren Ream, who was also shocked at how Trump and Vance treated Zelenskyy. “We shouldn’t treat any other country like that,” she added. Considering how Ukraine has been a US ally for over 30 years, this treatment is even more disgraceful.

During the meeting, Trump also managed to lie several times, not just to Zelenskyy but to everyone watching. He made multiple false claims about US aid given to Ukraine during the war. Trump first stated that the US had given over $300 billion to Ukraine, when, according to the Kiel Institute, the correct number as of February 2025 is $128 billion, less than half of Trump’s claim. “And he kept referring to it as being stolen,” added Ream. This money was certainly not stolen. The Biden Administration voted and chose to contribute this aid to Ukraine. Additionally, Trump stated that Europe has given $200 billion less in aid than the US has. However, at that point, Europe had given around $258 billion to Ukraine, more than twice as much as what the US had given.

Furthermore, Trump took pleasure in pivoting the conversation to insult previous presidents. He called Biden “a not very smart person,” which doesn’t seem like something one president should say about another, especially during a meeting that didn’t concern Biden. As for Obama, Trump said to Zelenskyy, “Obama gave you sheets. In fact, the statement is: Obama gave sheets, and Trump gave Javelins (missiles). You’ve got to be more thankful because let me tell you, you don’t have the cards.” I think that bit speaks for itself.

Vives connected the meeting to the 1938 Munich Agreement, when the UK and France appeased Germany, letting it take over land in Czechoslovakia, which led to World War II. Trump also hopes to appease Russia by having Ukraine give up its currently occupied land, which could pose a serious danger for the rest of Europe. “This war isn’t just for Ukraine. If Ukraine really falls, who’s to say Russia will just stop there?” said Omelko.

Since this meeting, many nations and people have lost trust in the US. Because of our network of alliances, any war including Russia can pose an extreme danger to the world. Previously, the US and most European nations agreed on this and worked together to prevent the situation from escalating. Yet Trump’s disrespect for Zelenskyy and positive comments about Russian President Vladimir Putin have changed this. “The US isn’t on [Europe’s] side anymore. The US has switched sides,” said Omelko. The meeting has sent a message to our allies that the US can no longer be trusted. “The greater damage has been done to our reputation across the world—that we are not an ally to be depended on,” agreed Vives.