Title: EDITORIAL: Questionable and Unnecessary Cafeteria Music
Author: N/A
Position: N/A
Category: Editorial, Articles
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: If you’ve spent any time in the cafeteria lately, you’ve probably noticed something a bit different—the music.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/img_5349.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

If you’ve spent any time in the cafeteria lately, you’ve probably noticed something a bit different—the music. And not just any music. Songs like CBAT (yes, that one) and other questionable choices are playing on a loop, often at a volume that makes it hard to think, let alone hold a conversation.

We at ANDOVERVIEW appreciate the thought that the addition of music could create an environment more conducive to student well-being. However, we feel that it does not offer anything positive to the school environment; in fact, it annoys more than it comforts or energizes. And what’s more, even if the music tracks were to be changed, students’ tastes in music vary greatly, so there will always be unhappy students who would prefer no music at all. We feel that a lack of music in the cafeteria was never a problem. It appears this is a “solution looking for a problem” kind of scenario.

Then there’s the volume, which is arguably more of an issue. At times, it’s so loud that you can hear it clearly from several classrooms away. Additionally, after school, it continues to play, making focus and work very difficult for some students who stay late.

Principal Jimmy D’Andrea commented that once volume and clarity issues are resolved with the sound system, a system where students can submit requests will be implemented. Although this may reflect the tastes of AHS students better, we believe it will still leave people unhappy, and is vulnerable to “trolling.”

The idea of music in the cafeteria was surely well-intentioned, and we appreciate that, but it is causing more frustration than enjoyment. Perhaps it’s time to consider if it’s even necessary at all.