Title: Sanborn Retires After 29 Years, Leaving Lasting Impact on APS Community
Author: Ella Hu
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: JUN 11, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: Stephen Sanborn, current PreK-12 science program coordinator for Andover Public Schools APS, is stepping down after 29 years as a teacher, administrator, and supporter.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/IMG_9105.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Stephen Sanborn, current PreK-12 science program coordinator for Andover Public Schools (APS), is stepping down after 29 years as a teacher, administrator, and supporter.

Sanborn started his career at APS, where, as a science teacher, he taught for 14 years, inspiring other educators with his commitment to science education. His role at APS pivoted 15 years ago when he took the role as science program coordinator, which he has been ever since. Over nearly three decades at APS, Sanborn has not only mentored many students but also played a key role in shaping the district’s science curriculum, helping high school students succeed in the field of science and encouraging students at the elementary level to develop a passion for science.

One thing Sanborn has always enjoyed doing throughout his career is working with students. “When I went from teaching to administration, I wondered if I was going to miss the students,” he said. Although part of being a program coordinator meant working with students less, Sanborn said, “At the same time, it has been very rewarding that some of the work I do [now] has a bigger effect because by helping the teachers, teachers help the students.”

To Sanborn, his responsibilities as administrator included more than just overseeing the science curriculum. When the Andover Robotics Club (ARC) advisor left in October of 2024, Sanborn seized the opportunity to work with students and stepped in as the temporary club advisor.

“At that point in the season, we had no clue if we were going to be able to go to competitions or meet at all,” said junior Raahil Parikh, who will be president of the Robotics Club in the 2025-2026 school year. “This is where Dr. Sanborn stepped in. As an administrator, he already had lots of experience with the legal and financial sides of things, which we were struggling with the most…Most of all, he was willing to [stay] in the library every Monday and Friday until 6 p.m. for the rest of the school year.”

Sanborn’s influence does not simply end at AHS. His unwavering dedication extends to supporting teachers and students at the elementary level. In fact, Sanborn expressed, “The thing I have enjoyed the most, even though I seem to have the least amount of time to do, is supporting elementary teachers with science. Science at the elementary level is not taken as importantly and does not get as much time and attention as it does in high school.”

As science coordinator, Sanborn has partnered with Andover Pollinator Pathway on a program specifically for fourth-graders to learn about pollinator plants. Students take their pollinator plants home and plant them in their yards as a way to promote pollinator insect species.

When Sanborn first stepped in as science coordinator, he found that the district’s science curriculum lacked a clear direction. However, over the years, APS has now developed a standardized science curriculum, ensuring all students have a consistent learning experience.

According to AHS science teacher Lindsey L’Ecuyer, Sanborn’s efforts to ensure a smooth transition from middle school to high school science courses were, in short, “a marathon, not a sprint.”

“High school teachers have been meeting with middle school science teachers monthly, and the conversations we are able to have together are helpful in establishing expectations and norms for our students,” said L’Ecuyer.

Recently recognized with the Amesbury Educational Foundation Former Student Award, Sanborn was nominated by L’Ecuyer, who, inspired by Sanborn’s doctoral work, earned her own doctorate in education.

Noted in L’Ecuyer’s nomination, Sanborn has mindfully rearranged his office over the years, so teachers who come in will face him from the same side of the table.

“He goes out of his way to truly listen to students and teachers beyond when he just needs them to get something done,” L’Ecuyer said.

As the strongest advocate for teachers and students, Sanborn was the first to suggest that L’Ecuyer start a bioengineering club, now known as the AHS BioBuilders Club. He dedicated his time to supporting the program, offering assistance with writing grants for equipment and club fees. According to L’Ecuyer, he was always there to help.

Sanborn says his time working with APS was “growth-filled.”

“I have grown a lot as an individual, I have faced many things that are challenging for me, [and] I have learned more than any student I have ever taught being a teacher and administrator,” he said.