Title: Social Media Marketing Class Plans Snack Shack Raffle in AHS Media Center
Author: Christina Saad
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 14, 2025
Tags: books, education, news, teaching, writing
Description: The media center hosted a raffle on April 19 with a prize of five Snack Shack tickets.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/img_7234.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

The media center hosted a raffle on April 19 with a prize of five Snack Shack tickets. The raffle was planned by students from art and business education teacher Meghan Michaud’s Advertising and Social Media Marketing class.

Three students from the class, junior Sophia Call, junior Sam Archiable, and sophomore Ellie Linehan, planned out the Snack Shack event. The prize winner for the raffle was Kai O’Sullivan.

Michaud’s original assignment was to break into small groups and develop a series of posts around a theme the group chose, which were then posted on the media center’s Instagram along a two-month timeframe.The goal of the assignment was to increase the library’s Instagram page from 700 to 1,000 followers.

“I felt like it was a good idea for students to have some real-world application of how to use the skills that they were learning in Advertising and Social Media Marketing,” said Michaud.

Students first did an analysis of the library’s Instagram account to look at what kind of followers it had and ways it wasn’t achieving its goals.They also did a competitor analysis of other library and book-related pages to see what kind of content they were producing. The class met with library staff and looked at data the library had about the number of books in the collection and what genres of books students gravitate towards.

“We looked at some real data and they asked questions, treating the library as a client, as they would in a professional relationship,” Michaud said.

The class decided on what their content would like and what would be their brand colors so there was a consistency in the imaging they were sending out. They developed a two-month calendar plan to increase followers. They have surpassed their goal of 1,000 followers and amassed 1,120 followers as of May 12, and they still have a month left in their calendar.

Students said that one of the things that motivates students was getting breakfast and going to the Snack Shack. Call, Archiable, and Linehan looked at Instagram models where the way to enter some sort of contest to win a prize was to like and follow the page. They thought about what would be an incentive for students to win that was easy and achievable to access, and decided that the Snack Shack would be a great incentive for students to like and follow the Instagram page.

“My group’s thought process for choosing the raffle was trying to figure out some way in which we could get the whole school participating and excited about,” said Archiable.

The group looked where students were viewing other types of media to get them to check Instagram. They created and posted flyers all around the school, did announcements over the loudspeaker, and had a feature on AHSNews.

“We tried to post as many [flyers] as possible around the schools, as well as setting them up as ‘art’ in the hallways,” Archiable said.

They also worked with staff in the cafeteria and the Food Services Department to secure a prize.