Title: Strength in Struggle: Teaching on the Path to a New Kidney
Author: Isabella Yan
Position: Arts Editor
Category: Articles, Community, Faculty
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, featured, school
Description: This past year has been a journey of perseverance and uncertainty for English teacher Elena Emory who has been battling chronic kidney disease and kidney failure since August 2023.

This past year has been a journey of perseverance and uncertainty for English teacher Elena Emory who has been battling chronic kidney disease and kidney failure since August 2023.

Kidney disease has long been a part of Emory’s life. The disease is genetic in her family, and for years she has endured its slow and inevitable progression. In October of this year, Emory matched with a living donor, a 73-year-old man.

“It’s a good kidney,” said Emory, “[I will] probably get 15 [or] maybe 20 years out of it.” The transplant can happen within the next two to six months.

Emory revealed the limited choices patients have during the kidney disease treatment process. “You don’t get options in this journey,” she said, adding, “[but] my surgeon gave me options.”

Emory has the option to take the kidney from the donor or have a Kidney Paired Donation (KPD). KPD matches incompatible donor-recipient pairs with other donor-recipient pairs to exchange kidneys. Through KPD, the kidney of her living donor can go to someone who is of a closer age or more compatible, while she can receive a younger kidney.

In the past year, Emory has had to balance her teaching life with the challenges of kidney disease. In the face of her medical journey, she has expressed an unwavering dedication to her students. “It’s a hard thing because you have the appearance of all is well, and it’s not,” Emory said.

Emory remains open to her students about her kidney disease. “I couldn’t keep it packed away,” she said, “they’re my kids… they get a sense of their teachers and something like this.” In sharing her experience with kidney disease with her students, Emory explained, “The kids will be on the journey to transplant…they’ll see the other side of it, [that’s] the beauty of that.”

Junior Aneesa Hazarika previously had Emory as a teacher and reflected on how Emory’s experience with kidney disease shaped her relationships with her students. “She would relate to us in an emotional aspect because she was dealing with a struggle of her own,” said Hazarika. “When it came to talking with her, it was a lot easier because she was understanding in that [emotional] aspect.”

Hazarika added that her story not only sheds light on the disease but also sheds light on what people––especially teachers––may be experiencing beyond what is seen at the surface level. “It’s not like they’re only surrounded by academics. They have their own personal life and personal struggles, and seeing that made me realize…they’re similar to us in more ways than one,” said Hazarika.

Emory shared that she has received enormous support from family and community members during her medical journey and has been incredibly thankful for the patience, love, and sacrifice she has received. “[People have been] reaching out,” she said, “[and] people do what they can.” However, the support that she has experienced from her students has been especially meaningful. “My kids have been the saving grace for me…they are everything,” she said. Hazarika pointed to the attentiveness, respect, and well-wishes of the students in her class upon learning of Emory’s story.

Despite the recent hopeful turn in her journey, the road towards securing a donor has been a challenge in itself. Around 17 people tested to be a living donor for Emory. Among these people was Emory’s husband, who completed numerous tests over three months intending to be a donor for Emory. However, on the final test, Emory and her husband received disheartening news: her husband was discovered to have Fibromuscular Dysplasia, a condition that involves the twisting of arteries including the ones that connect to the kidney, disqualifying him from being a donor. “As devastating as [the diagnosis] was, this was a ‘God-Moment,’ one of the many,” said Emory. “My husband and our family now have this information and can keep our eyes on it.”

Since finding out that she has matched with a donor, Emory shared that the biggest thing for her has been answering the question, “How do you pay this forward?” One thing is spreading the message that there are many people who are in need of a kidney. “It’s really important to think about…What can you do to help someone in need?” Emory said. She encourages people to learn about the importance of being an organ or blood donor. “Kindness takes many hands and many forms,” Emory explained, “everyone can do something to help someone else out and every gesture makes a huge difference.”

By sharing her story, Emory is a voice for many others experiencing kidney disease or other health challenges. “My journey is far from over, I have learned so much,” said Emory. With remarkable strength and courage, she takes on the role of an educator in an inspiring way. “The road to transplantation is never straight, can be lonely, and is not without ‘bumps,’” said Emory, “and that is indeed part of the journey.”