Title: Students’ Opinions on COVID Restrictions, 7+H Schedule
Author: Jacqueline Zhu
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community
Date: OCT 13, 2021
Tags: 8 day schedule, ahs, covid, schedule, school, social distancing
Description: The return to the 8-day schedule and the lifting of social distancing restrictions this year have prompted a variety of responses from students.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/8-day-schedule-blank.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/8-day-schedule-blank.png?resize=428%2C308&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: A blank template of the 7+H schedule
ImageCredit 2: N/A

The return to the 8-day schedule and the lifting of social distancing restrictions this year have prompted a variety of responses from students.

Concerns over safety have arisen over the removal of social distancing restrictions, such as one-way hallways and spaced seating in classrooms. Some students feel that the lifting of these restrictions has made them feel more unsafe.

“Lifting the social distancing [restrictions] and one-way hallways is definitely more convenient for students but not necessarily the safest thing,” said sophomore William Tutwiler. “I understand Andover’s vaccination percentage is very high, but I believe it is safest to continue social distancing especially with the new Delta Variant.”

Jack Klock, a junior, feels the same way. He said it’s definitely going to impact safety at the school, and acknowledged that although most people at AHS are vaccinated, it’s important to stay cautious.

Others feel that the removal of some restrictions won’t have much of an effect on safety. “I think as more people get vaccinated and COVID-19 rates start to decline, lifting some restrictions will be okay,” stated junior Elisabeth Shin, “as long as people still maintain some hygiene and make sure to get vaccinated, [it] shouldn’t impact the safety of most students.”

The return to the 8-day schedule is another of the many changes to AHS this year. The 8-day schedule has long been a contentious topic, and many are divided on whether its reinstatement has been beneficial or detrimental.

Senior Janice Lee is among those who do not prefer the 8-day schedule. “During the 4 block schedule we had during the hybrid model, it was easier to manage my work because the classes would be every other day. So if I had class one day I would have at least the day I had class and the next day to work on [homework].”

Others, such as Shin, enjoy the 8-day schedule. Shin likes the 8-day schedule because it allows her to sign up for teachers for H-blocks and helps keep the days interesting. “While there is no predictable pattern, I think it kind of symbolizes how life is not set in stone,” she said.

Despite these mixed opinions, students are overall happy that they can be in-person. “I think it’s just a blessing to be back in school learning in classrooms rather than behind a screen and I am looking forward to a really great school year,” said Tutwiler.