Title: Student-led Program Encourages the Arts
Author: Abby Chachus
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: DEC 14, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: Musicians and artists at AHS were scheduled to visit all Andover elementary schools on December 5 and 6.

Musicians and artists at AHS were scheduled to visit all Andover elementary schools on December 5 and 6. After the half day on December 4, there was a mandatory training session for any high school students who signed up to participate in this program. This opportunity was open to students in the Tri-M Music Honor Society, the Theatre Guild, and the National Art Honor Society.

Senior Anna Bacchi, the creator of this program, said, “For the mandatory training, we [went] over the activities and the general do’s and don’ts for working with the elementary school kids. We also handed out t-shirts to everyone at the meeting. We want to increase [the kids’] appreciation for art and music.” She also wanted students to have an opportunity to engage in art outside of the classroom.

Bacchi created the program for her Girl Scout Gold Award project. She designed the program to be similar to Warrior Way, but to be focused on the arts instead of athletics. The program involves high schoolers engaging in art activities with elementary students during their art and music classes.

Ciera O’Keefe, a third-grade teacher at High Plain Elementary School, said, “Years ago, [we were told] Warrior Way was supposed to be more band, art, and athletes, but now a majority of athletes [participate]. This could be a great opportunity for high school students to bond with the [younger] kids.”  She believes that it’s important to be involved in the lives of children and inform them about what there is to offer in the future.

“I think as students [enter] upper elementary [school], they begin to think about their pathways and options,” said Sean Walsh, the Fine Arts coordinator. “This is a way they can hear from older students who have gone through the experience about what those options are.”

Walsh added: “This will help students who might not think of themselves as arts-minded.”

O’Keefe agreed. “It’s huge to have AHS students come and show the elementary kids what there is to offer in high school,” she said. She also emphasized how impactful it is for young artists to connect with role models from orchestra, chorus, and those who excel in drawing and performing.

Walsh said that based on his own experiences it is important for elementary school students to meet the students in higher grades.

“Having had a recent kid in elementary school, I think they look up to older students. I think they find that often they’re the ones that could be most honest. Like role models,” Walsh said. “The goal is to help promote the arts and give students an awareness of what opportunities exist through middle and high school.”