Title: Students Miss Outdoor Breaks During Class
Author: Xander McKay-Kao
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community
Date: MAY 02, 2023
Tags: covid, COVID-19, featured, Mask breaks, masks
Description: With the frequency of breaks during class diminishing, Andover High School students have stated that taking a walk outside during class would help with productivity.

With the frequency of breaks during class diminishing, Andover High School students have stated that taking a walk outside during class would help with productivity.

Originally introduced as mask breaks, institutionalized short breaks from class taken outside of the school began when the COVID protocol was initiated at AHS. Caitlin Brown, AHS’s principal, explained that the COVID system encouraged teachers, especially during long blocks, to allow times for students to remove their masks. Spacing issues meant that these mask breaks could not be done inside, so specific mask break locations outside the school were established. This was so that the school could keep track of where kids were for safety reasons.

Now that AHS is no longer under COVID protocol, Brown says that the school just asks the teachers to inform the school if they are to go outside, but now that teachers are no longer told to take their kids outside, many teachers have stopped doing it altogether.

Enrico Panzica, a junior, said, “Trudging through a day with no breaks is hard work, school only really has one break, lunch.” He explained that a break helps him clear his head, a sentiment held by many others. In addition to Panzica, many students, such as juniors Mars Tasiopoulos, Arjun Chavan, Luke Stump, and Kyle Huang, adore these breaks. Many have expressed displeasure with the recent lack of them. Many teachers no longer take their students on walks, perhaps due to time constraints. One math teacher, Dorothy Power, said, “In general, I have not been taking them. I would love to go more regularly… but there is always so much to do.” Walks take on average 5-10 minutes if a class walks around the entire school, perhaps less if they choose to use the courtyard. A break of that length could take up a significant portion of class time.

Brown explained a problem that arose during the lunch block, which is one of the two long blocks during which teachers would actually take breaks past COVID. When classes would walk past the exterior courtyard by the cafeteria, students would mix and begin to deviate by heading inside early. Not knowing where students were meant that the school couldn’t ensure their safety. As such, she has said that teachers have been told not to take laps around the school during lunch. Both Scott Darlington, an assistant principal, and Brown have said that the interior courtyard is a perfectly suitable place to take these breaks.

Some teachers agree with the general student sentiment. Katie Reusch, a social studies teacher who teaches U.S. History, Race & Membership, and Music & Society classes, is fond of walking breaks. “I find that people are better equipped to do whatever we’re doing after the breaks as opposed to just trying to stick it out and getting tired,” she said.