Title: World Languages Coordinator Reflects On Career, Retirement
Author: Avery Slaughter
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community, Education, Trending
Date: JUN 09, 2025
Tags: ahs, andover, education, news, school
Description: Peter Hall, program coordinator of World Languages at Andover Public Schools, is retiring this coming September.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/img_9749.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Peter Hall, program coordinator of World Languages at Andover Public Schools, is retiring this coming September. Hall has been working in the district for 35 years.

Hall’s career at APS commenced in 1995. Over the span of 27 years, he taught both French and Spanish at levels ranging from beginner to Advanced Placement before transitioning into the role of program coordinator in 2022.

Overall, his experience at APS has been a positive one.

“I am fortunate to say that I have enjoyed my years here,” said Hall. “I have had a lot of wonderful students who make each year a little different. […] It’s been a lifetime of memories and experiences.”

Over the years, Hall has worked with students in and out of the classroom in an effort to inspire interest in other cultures. His passion for foreign languages began in middle school, and he has since strived to share that enthusiasm with others. Hall traveled with students to France seven times as part of the French Exchange Program and led the Spanish Exchange Program trip once. Additionally, he chaperoned numerous other international trips offered by APS.

“As a language teacher it has been my passion to share my love for travel and learning about other cultures with students,” Hall said. “It provides an opportunity to get to know students outside of the classroom and broaden their perspectives on the world.”

Watching students grow as people throughout trips abroad has been one of his favorite parts of his job, Hall said.

Moreover, his years of teaching have defined who he is as a person. Much of who he is has been shaped by his career in teaching, explained Hall. He plans on taking that educational mindset with him into the future.

Hall’s positive impact on the World Language Program hasn’t gone unnoticed by teachers who know him. Between his contributions to the various programs offered by the department, years of teaching multiple languages, and guidance as program coordinator, he will be missed in retirement.

“I think he’s a great person,” Spanish teacher Teresa Peralta said. “It’s hard for us to let him go, but I think each person has a mission and I think he’s ready [to retire]. We want to say thank you for all the work that he has done, and for teaching us as well.”