Title: Preview: AHS Wrestling Team
Author: Camille Storch, Shravya Sathi
Position: Editors-in-Chief
Category: Articles, Sports
Date: FEB 14, 2022
Tags: featured, Sports, sports coach, winter, winter sports, wrestling
Description: “There is something special about wrestlers and wrestling teams,” said Andover High School’s head varsity wrestling coach, Michael Bolduc.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/andover-wrestling-2021-2022.jpeg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/andover-wrestling-2021-2022.jpeg?resize=960%2C404&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: 2021-2022 winter season roster of AHS Varsity Wrestling team
ImageCredit 2: COURTESY PHOTO / Michael Bolduc

“There is something special about wrestlers and wrestling teams,” said Andover High School’s head varsity wrestling coach, Michael Bolduc.

The AHS wrestling team has flourished over the past years and is hoping to win the state championship this year. Coach Bolduc has been at AHS for seven years and has coached over 26 years at the high school level.

“Andover’s success over the last two to three years is because of our staff,” said Bolduc.“ Ken Najem has been by my side since day one; Chuck Tedeschi joined us last year and made an immediate positive impact. My three coaches have a tremendous amount of knowledge and experience in wrestling. More importantly, all outstanding role models.”

In addition to the strong experience from coaches, the 2021-2022 season is led by captains Johnathan Davila and Yasser Maita.

“Captains and upperclassmen control the tempo of practice, not the coaches. They build the winning culture in our mat room,” acknowledged Bolduc.

While the team hopes for many successes this year, it has been a difficult road to get here. Last season, they competed with a reduced schedule, a smaller roster, and limited attendance due to COVID. This season, however, the team is able to compete closer to a full roster of athletes again.

“Currently, we are anticipating a full schedule. The number of athletes has significantly increased, and there will be fewer restrictions on parents and friends that want to watch our matches,” said Bolduc.

Getting as close to a normal season as possible means the team is setting up short-term and long-term goals.

“We are still assessing our strengths and weaknesses. With that being said, some team goals never change. Team goals this season include commitment, hard work, and comradery,” said Bolduc. With the pandemic, there were limited social events, and student-athletes came in with a large gap in wrestling experience. However, this team does “not focus on the wins and losses; we focus on the growth of the team as the season progresses,” said Bolduc.

The most special part of this sport is that while it is an individual sport, the team’s successes only occur due to the sharing of the wrestling philosophy.
“We have common goals and those goals are achieved because we get there together,” ended Bolduc.