Title: AHS Class of 2025 Graduation: Celebrating Collective Excellence
Author: Areeta Faiz, Ella Hu
Position: Staff Writers
Category: Articles
Date: JUN 09, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: Anticipation settled through a full audience as valedictorian John Weng and salutatorian Sahil Khosla carefully led the graduation committee to the stage.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/IMG_2638.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Anticipation settled through a full audience as valedictorian John Weng and salutatorian Sahil Khosla carefully led the graduation committee to the stage. With their heads held high, the duo gripped their maces firmly in hand, a quiet testament to their academic achievements. Walking down the aisle again, this time accompanied by the band’s triumphant theme, they led the class of 2025 with pride. Collectively, the soon-to-be graduates took their seats one last time next to the teammates, acquaintances, and friends they’ve known since childhood.

The Class of 2025 seniors graduated on June 2, 2025, at the Tsongas Center in Lowell. The ceremony was filled with appreciation for the community and the rebuilding of the AHS spirit throughout their high school careers.

When asked about how they felt before graduating, seniors responded that under their smiles, they were busy worrying about the possibilities of tripping on stage or their ornately decorated caps falling off.

Prior to the ceremony, while recounting their experiences, nearly all spoke of the most powerful part of their journey: their friends.

“[During] lunches I had with my friends…we just ate and talked, and we didn’t really think about the end of high school,” said senior Judy Elkotory wistfully. “But now it’s here.”

Senior Sophia Cordio recalled, “[I met] my closest friends in high school…and I’ve really grown as a person.” This sentiment was echoed by nearly the entire senior class.

Graduation speeches praised excellence in all that the seniors accomplished. Every speaker agreed that the Class of 2025 poured their hearts into everything they did, academically, artistically, and athletically, through service, commitment, and passion.

Senior class essayist Will Dever highlighted the unique trials and tribulations that made this year’s group unlike any before, including having to enter high school during the COVID-19 pandemic. He also noted that the 2007 birth spike made this class exceptionally competitive.

“I am confident that everyone sitting in front of me will be prepared for whatever the world has to throw at them,” he said. “Unpredictability is something that we have learned to live with.”

Superintendent Magda Parvey acknowledged the seniors’ ability to come together to accomplish remarkable feats, as well as their “leadership, not just as individuals, but collectively, leading by example, inside and outside of school.” Parvey, who came on board as these students were starting as freshmen, shared that this was the first group of graduates she served fully during their four years.

In his uplifting speech, Principal Jimmy D’Andrea expressed a deep appreciation for the first class of seniors he oversaw at AHS. He urged graduates to express gratitude for their support systems while inspiring reflection and encouragement for the future.

“You are awesome individuals who have achieved tremendous success,” he said.

After winning the hearts of AHS students in just one year with his kind gestures and presence at every school-related event, it was only a surprise to D’Andrea himself that he was awarded the 2025 Distinguished Citizen Award. In fact, the ceremony began with a reference to his recognizable Sunday night calls, prompting the audience’s first chuckle of the evening.

“He demonstrated the impact that one person can have when they truly care,” said senior Carissa Dessin as she recognized the principal’s efforts in her speech announcing the recipient of the Distinguished Citizen Award.

The heartfelt ceremony emphasized the group’s strength as a community and a bright future beyond AHS for every student. These bittersweet moments left graduates with the initiative to embrace change, face the future with confidence, and carry forward the determination that has shaped them.

Reminiscing about the pandemic, Dever remarked, “I understand that there are varying degrees of outgoingness among us, but I do believe that if we can get to know each other as awkward 14-year-olds with our faces covered, we can get to know anyone in the world.”