Title: AHS Junior Board Conducts Annual Thanksgiving Food Drive
Author: Shreya Soni
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: DEC 14, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: This year, the drive collected over 1,000 food items, thanks to the efforts of students, faculty, and community members.

This year, the drive collected over 1,000 food items, thanks to the efforts of students, faculty, and community members.

“We started doing the Thanksgiving Food Drive 15 or 16 years ago,” said Michelle Chachus, a History teacher and one of the faculty advisors for the Junior Board. “It was started by [the Junior] Board that I worked with that year [that] decided they wanted to do something meaningful for the holidays.” Since then, the drive has become a cornerstone event for the school.

“I think it’s important to donate to this cause because I want everyone to have something good to eat on Thanksgiving,” said junior Nicole Flanagan, a member of the Junior Board.

“You never know who’s struggling in our community… we need to help everyone,” Flanagan emphasized. As a part of the Junior Board, Flanagan and other committed students helped plan and advertise the drive, promoting the event both inside and outside of the high school as well as taking donations from people who drove by the high school.

Junior Celeste Miner, another member of the Junior Board and a donor to the drive, reflected on its impact: “This was also a really good opportunity as [people] get to help the surrounding communities.” Miner saw how initiatives like this could bring the community closer together and heard from her friends and teachers about the joy they felt after knowing that their small contribution could positively affect someone else.

The Thanksgiving Food Drive isn’t the only charitable effort at AHS. Events like the Freshman Board’s annual Toy Drive and the Sophomore Board’s Holiday Card Drive give students additional opportunities to contribute. “There’s always something going on at the school,” Flanagan emphasized. “And you can become a part of it by donating or even just spreading the word.”

For more information about these charitable efforts and future ones, please talk to the class boards’ faculty advisors or one of the assistant principals.