Title: AHS Student Directs Coming-of-Age Film, ‘Horizon’
Author: Abby Chachus
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Clubs, Community, Education, Events, Trending
Date: JUN 09, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: AHS Film Club president Scott Strellis is working on directing his first original film, *Horizon*.

AHS Film Club president Scott Strellis is working on directing his first original film, *Horizon*. Far from a simple project, *Horizon* has and will continue to use up a lot of time for preparation and collaboration.

For Strellis, filmmaking has always been more than a hobby. “[Film Club has] been doing a lot of short films, preparing for this throughout the years,” he explained. Now, as director of his first film, he is putting all those lessons into practice. “Directing is mainly about being as creative as possible, communicating well with others, and finding a good workflow,” Strellis said.

*Horizon* tells the heartfelt story of a teenager grappling with loss and responsibility. “It’s a coming-of-age sailing film,” Strellis said. “The main character tries to find out what his identity is through sailing, because he’s had some hardship with loved ones passing away, and he has to take a lot of responsibility for himself, in terms of growing up.”

While *Horizon* is Strellis’s first time directing a project, it’s not his first experience on a film set. Two years ago, he helped with little things in the creation of *Bonsai*, another student film. That experience, along with the support of the AHS community, has been very valuable in helping him learn the skills he needs to create his own movie. “The resources at the high school let me show all my creative ideas and really help with the workflow,” said Strellis.

Collaboration is important to the creation of *Horizon*. Strellis is working with senior Ben Murfitt and sophomore Rohit Perugupalli to write the script and put it all together.

“Since I am not as experienced with playwriting, it has been an enlightening and educational experience,” said Perugupalli. He also explained that overall, the experience has been pretty positive.

Faculty advisor Daniel Brennan, who previously guided the *Bonsai* project, is offering mentorship, and former student Nate Allen has provided advice and encouragement as well.

“There’s a QR code on the forms [hanging around school]. We did the major casting already, but we’ll always have open parts for extras and those who just want to stop by for cameos,” Strellis said.