Title: AHS Students Perform at Carnegie Hall
Author: Janaesa Macasaet
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAR 17, 2025
Tags: band, classical-music, music, news, piano
Description: Junior Ana Murray and sophomore Armand Omelko performed at Carnegie Hall on February 15.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/carnegie-hall-4.webp
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
Display: featured

Junior Ana Murray and sophomore Armand Omelko performed at Carnegie Hall on February 15. Murray performed Czardas by Vittorio Monti on violin, while Omelko performed Chopin’s Prelude in E Minor on piano.

Both musicians have played their respective instruments from a young age, with Murray on the violin and Omelko playing the piano. The two were encouraged by their outside-of-school music teachers to join the Crescendo International Competition and aim for the prestigious venue. For Murray, this performance was her third at Carnegie and fourth competition overall. Omelko, on the other hand, made his debut at Carnegie.

“My violin teacher…first got me into competitions when I was in eighth grade. At the time, I didn’t think I’d get anything. [I got] first place, and since then she’s just been motivating me and helping me get to the point where I am now,” said Murray. She has competed in Little Mozart Music Competitions as well as the Crescendo International Competition since then.

This year, she began working on her piece in the spring of 2024, practicing throughout the summer and fall, and submitted the recording in December. For all Carnegie Hall auditions, a board of musicians decides who goes forward in the process. The first and second place in the region from these auditions perform.

“In terms of playing,…it’s going to be difficult because I have to keep improving…There’s never really a point where I can stop improving,” Murray said. “So it definitely becomes a mental struggle, whether or not it’s good enough. [Keeping up with] all my other extracurriculars…on top of this, while also trying to improve in a really short amount of time, is difficult.”

Omelko’s journey to Carnegie Hall began similarly, with his piano teacher introducing him to the opportunity. After winning first place in the Crescendo International Competition, he earned his spot on stage—this was his most significant performance to date.

Both students partake in numerous musical activities at AHS. Omelko plays brass baritone for Marching Band, baritone saxophone for Jazz Band, and cello for Orchestra. Murray has been a show choir member for the past three years, along with taking Chamber Choir, Orchestra, and a Music Production class.

Band director Jeffrey Kuchan noted Omelko’s drive for music, saying, “I have not taught Armand any piano whatsoever, so it’s very clear that he exudes a desire to make music, a passion, and whenever he picks up a new instrument, he takes that energy and that creativity and applies it.”

Omelko believes music has benefitted him not just as a performer but also as a person. “It gave me a passion… It teaches me discipline, you know—practice, commitment, and overall it also helped me get into certain communities especially ensembles like Orchestra, Band, those are communities I value,” said Omelko.

Many AHS students participate in musical activities outside of school, which AHS teachers agree enhances their skills as performers and musicians.

“The more different experiences you collect, it shapes you as a musician…you have that nuance to kind of adapt and hear things differently,” said Kuchan. “Everything is an experiment in life, so you can glean or pull from those experiences, you can learn about music, you can learn about yourself…. So I think that it’s valuable to seek out those opportunities.”

Show Choir Director Dr. Lauren Peithmann echoed this idea. “I think students who love music here in our program, many of them also do activities outside of school, whether it’s private lessons or community theater or singing in a choir outside of a building, and I think anyone who’s really interested in pursuing music for a career should look at as many opportunities as they can.”

While Omelko and Murray plan to continue pursuing musical endeavors in the future, their career aspirations stray from the realm of music. Murray aims to pursue nursing while Omelko plans to work in international relations. Still, they stay dedicated to their love for music.