Title: Amping Up for Senior Prom
Author: Caitlin Connell
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community
Date: APR 07, 2022
Tags: 2022 prom, ahs, andover, dance, food, prom, senior, senior prom
Description: The Class of 2022 Senior Prom is finally upon us.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/img_4842.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/img_4842.png
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Senior Emily Fotter picks out her prom dress at The Ultimate.
ImageCredit 2: COURTESY PHOTO / Emily Fotter

The Class of 2022 Senior Prom is finally upon us. The prom will be held Saturday, May 21, at Castleton in Windham, New Hampshire.

Prom will begin at 6:30 p.m. and end at 10:30 p.m. Students are required to stay for the entire duration of the prom. Tickets for prom will be $100 per person as it includes entry to the prom as well as dinner. The school will not require students to take buses with the school; they will be allowed to arrive as they so choose.

“We are not anticipating needing to [take buses], but there may be some students that can’t get a ride there themselves,” stated Senior Board Advisor Laura Jordan. “We are going to wait and see how the ticket sales go, but there is no requirement to take a bus.”

Jordan said the tickets “should be on sale the week before April vacation, down in the cafeteria after school.” So don’t forget to buy your ticket after school in the cafeteria.

When you order your ticket, you will also be able to choose your seats for the dinner at prom. Make sure to have your seating arrangements picked out before buying tickets, as you will not be allowed to change your seats after submission. There will be 10 seats per table.

The dinner is also a big part of the night and is one of the only times the whole senior class will be together to have a meal before graduating. “This year at prom, dinner will be a garden salad, chicken broccoli alfredo, pasta primavera, roast sirloin, seasonal veggies, mashed potatoes, and a brownie sundae,” said senior Micheala Sherlock. “There are going to be plenty of options for people with different dietary restrictions… gluten-free, vegan, vegetarian. There will be options for everyone, good options as well.”

Senior Prom 2022 is the first time since 2019 that seniors will get a prom run by the school. Prom last year was run by the loving parents of Andover for the Class of 2021.

Jordan said that the “biggest difference I know is that [the students] are not required to come here, take a school bus and all go together. People are excited about that because I know people are already booking party buses and limos… that will add a bit of a fun element to it.”

Senior Board Member Sophie Colby said, “I think prom will definitely go well, I think that people are really looking forward to an event like this because we haven’t had one at all; we didn’t have a semi—nothing like that—so we are very excited.”

“People are definitely opinionated about the prom court, which is good because we want to hear from our class,” concluded Colby. To vote for Prom Court, a Google Form will be sent out by the Senior Board Advisors. To stay updated with prom and other senior activities, you can follow the @AHS2022class Instagram.

Prom is a memorable high school experience, and this year’s prom will be a great way to end a year filled with setbacks such as COVID. The Class of 2022 deserves this prom, and the objective is to “have fun!” said Senior Board Advisor Sylvia Danos.