Title: Andover High School’s 2023 Talent Show
Author: Julie Mahoney
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Arts, Community
Date: JAN 25, 2023
Tags: ahs, Events, featured, talent show
Description: Showcasing a dozen talented students, this year’s talent show will take place on January 26 in the Collins Center at 7:00 pm.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/screen-shot-2023-01-25-at-12.14.07-pm.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/unknown.jpeg?resize=515%2C719&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Talent show poster
ImageCredit 2: N/A

Showcasing a dozen talented students, this year’s talent show will take place on January 26 in the Collins Center at 7:00 pm.

Following last year’s successful show, the Junior Board started planning months in advance. The Board’s advisors are Michelle Chachus, Nicholas Rand, and the principal organizer, Guidance Counselor Kimberly Bergey. Sign-ups ended on January 12, and the first dress rehearsal occurred on January 24. Some of the acts anticipated are slam poetry, dance, musical numbers, and comedy. Leeyah Soen, Smit Patel, Kiarra Lucas, Louis Morrison, and the AHS a cappella group, The Chromatics, are some of the names that will be appearing at the show.

Junior Board members began asking teachers to be a part of the panel of judges after returning from break, and “are hoping to have three or four teachers on the panel,” Rand said. “They will be coming up with first and second places based on scoring, and the audience will have a live vote for the fan favorite.”

Anticipation for this year’s talent show has been built up, “Last year was a really successful one,” Rand said. “Since COVID, we weren’t having them. In our eyes, it was the first big event of the school coming together in a non-sport, team aspect.”

Bergey continued the tradition of the show. “Former Spanish teacher Mr. Kolbe used to hold a talent show last block the day before winter vacation. When he retired, I wanted to continue the tradition and it is one of my favorite events of the school year,” Bergey said. She has had many years of experience running the show, but the talent show has only been taking place after school hours for the last few years. “We have a few excited junior hosts this year,” Rand added, making this year extra special.

Leeyah Soen is in all things music at the high school and has been performing since she was three years old, in all kinds of performing arts. “I got second place because I played the piano, sang, and danced in the same act,” Soen said, referring to last year’s show. After last year’s success, she is participating once again.

Many are excited for the night, especially Rand: “It’s overall a really fun event, and everyone is welcome. We really get a good mix of people to come to it.”