Title: Brown Leads Andover to New Success
Author: Camille Storch
Position: Co-Editor-in-Chief
Category: Articles, Sports
Date: OCT 13, 2021
Tags: football, Sports
Description: At an athletically competitive school like Andover High, making the varsity football team as a freshman is a daunting task, and one that not many accomplish.

At an athletically competitive school like Andover High, making the varsity football team as a freshman is a daunting task, and one that not many accomplish. To start playing quarterback as a freshman is even more challenging, yet one young athlete was able to reach both of these milestones.

Scotty Brown, now a junior, has been playing football since he was five years old. Brown was given the opportunity to start as quarterback freshman year and progressed greatly as an athlete and football player throughout the past three years.

“Come week four [freshman year], I had been playing receiver each game,” recalls Brown, “and then week five, I was named the starter maybe fifteen minutes before the game started.” In his first match as first string quarterback against Methuen, Brown remembers the feeling of that moment: pure excitement.

Brown has gone on to start all of the varsity games since week five in 2019, and will continue to lead his team as the season progresses. The started the year 2-2, and began on a positive foot. “We started off the year with a scrimmage against Naples, Florida,” stated Brown. Playing a team from another state, let alone Florida, is a rarity for Andover, but as Brown explained, “It was a scrimmage game for us, a real game for them, but it was under the lights and everything.”

This will be Brown’s first year getting to play under the lights each week with The Jungle in attendance. In 2019, the football team had to play their games during the day, due to a breakout case of Triple-E in the Andover area. In 2020, the team was able to play their games on a regular weekly basis, but were not allowed any fans due to COVID. They also had to wear masks while playing and follow strict COVID guidelines that diminished the simplistic fun of football.

Yet, Brown is not worried that the team has been set back at all by having a couple different seasons in the past. “The team is very young, there are a lot of sophomores, there’s got to be at least five on each side of the ball,” said Brown. “I think this year we look great as a team, but next year we are going to look even better,”.

For football teams playing in Massachusetts, the main goal is to make it to Gillette Stadium for the Division 1 Championship. In past years, tough competition from St. John’s Prep (Danvers) has dominated, with the Prep winning multiple years consecutively. Yet, with Brown leading a strong, hardworking team, Andover could very well find themselves driving down to Foxborough at the end of the season.

Looking forward to the far future, Brown is still deciding whether or not he will pursue football at the collegiate level. In addition to playing football in the fall, Brown is on the varsity baseball team at AHS, and has an equal love for both sports. “I’ve always been saying this my whole life,” smiled Brown, “whatever season I am in [at the current time], that’s the sport I like the most.”

As of October 9 2021, Brown verbally committed to UMass Lowell to play baseball.