Title: EDITORIAL: College Decisions Causing Stress
Author: N/A
Position: N/A
Category: Editorial
Date: APR 07, 2022
Tags: college, college apps, college search, COVID-19, Editorial, guidance department, Opinion
Description: High school seniors across the world are currently having to grapple with a major decision that will play an important role in their further education.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/harvard-university-usa-wallpapers-by-cool-wallpapers-1-1-1.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

High school seniors across the world are currently having to grapple with a major decision that will play an important role in their further education. For some students, deciding where to go to college is simple; they have known their whole lives they are destined to go to this place, or they toured a specific school junior year and knew it was the one. Yet, for others, the choice can be quite stressful to map out.

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been significant changes to the admissions process — specifically, the removal of the requirement for students to submit standardized testing scores. Since students did not have to submit scores, many decided to apply to more schools that might have originally been out of reach. As a result, universities this year have received record numbers in terms of applicants.

In addition, many universities over-accepted the Class of 2021 last year, therefore they are having to accept less students this year in order to restore their undergrad population.

All of these contributing factors have led to a stress overload for seniors. Students this year are facing unexpected rejections more often than before.

As it is expected the next few years will be impacted by the pandemic, there will continue to be a need for resources for the rising seniors. In the future, we hope to be able to find more accessible ways to connect with guidance counselors and access helpful, basic resources

that will outline exactly what rising seniors need to fill out with specific information. For example, seniors and their parents did not know what the CSS profile or FAFSA is or how to fill them out. Many students do not know what things we should be doing since freshman year to help make applying to colleges easier in the future.

We believe that having more time and meetings with guidance counselors since freshman year. These meetings can consist of figuring out what the student wants after high school and making sure they are on the right track for that. In addition, having a platform that students can access as early as ninth grade, with all the college information and checklists could truly help.

*Editorials represent the opinion of the ANDOVERVIEW staff as a whole.*