Title: Faz to Retire After 34 Years at AHS
Author: Jacqueline Zhu
Position: Copy Editor
Category: Articles, Community, Sports
Date: JAN 13, 2023
Tags: basketball, coach faz, featured, Sports
Description: After 34 years of working at Andover High School, David Fazio, physical education teacher, is retiring in June.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/coach-faz.jpeg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/coach-faz.jpeg?resize=398%2C531&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: David Fazio at the Massachusetts Basketball Coaches Association Hall of Fame at College of the Holy Cross in Worcester.
ImageCredit 2: COURTESY PHOTO

After 34 years of working at Andover High School, David Fazio, physical education teacher, is retiring in June.

Fazio, affectionately known by his students as Coach Faz, started working at AHS as a basketball coach. He has been teaching physical education for 28 years and coaching golf for 10 years. Prior to coming to Andover, Fazio worked at Dracut, Methuen, Stoneham, West Newbury, and Lexington.

Although he is retiring from teaching, Fazio emphasizes that he will continue coaching at AHS. “I’m up in the air about whether I’ll be coaching golf still,” he stated, “but I’m a hundred percent sure that I’ll be coaching basketball as long as [AHS] will have it.”

Fazio’s favorite memory of working at AHS is interacting with his students. “The kids have been amazing,” he said. “I’ve built so many relationships as a teacher, golf coach, and basketball coach. The most important thing in any school is the students.”

Many of Fazio’s students commented on his affable personality and enthusiasm for teaching.

“Coach Faz was outgoing and funny, and he always found a way to have everyone participate,” said Vivian Tang, senior. “I liked how he was constantly encouraging us to do our best. His eagerness to start every day with a positive attitude is what made his classes memorable.”

Senior Madeline Shin agreed. “His humor and liveliness motivated us to work harder, focus better and get our groove going in class,” she stated. “He was always someone you could rely on for advice or to brighten up bad days.”

On November 13, Fazio was inducted into the Massachusetts Basketball Coaches Association (MBCA) Hall of Fame at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester.

He had been admitted to other halls of fame in the past, stated Fazio, but MBCA’s was the most prestigious.

“I had 55 of my former players all show up,” he said. “My first captain from 34 years ago was at the event. He’s 51 years old now.”

Fazio’s message to his students is to have a positive attitude. “Believe in yourself,” he said. “Be a Tigger, not an Eeyore.”