Title: First Year Mentor Program Aims to Cultivate Community
Author: Samantha Sun
Position: Social Media Manager
Category: Articles, Community
Date: OCT 07, 2024
Tags: 9th grade, ahs, andover, education, featured, features, Freshmen, mentor, news, school
Description: Health teacher Holly Breen and Assistant Principal Alicia Linsey devised the program as a way to smooth the transition into the AHS community.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/first-year-mentor.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/first-year-mentor.jpg?resize=2016%2C1512&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Alan Hibino and Allison Peters’ freshmen advisory class poses for a photo.
ImageCredit 2: COURTESY PHOTO / Alicia Linsey

Health teacher Holly Breen and Assistant Principal Alicia Linsey devised the program as a way to smooth the transition into the AHS community. Each advisory has two or three mentors who visit once every six to eight weeks to help out ninth grade students throughout their entire freshmen year. The mentors include sophomores, juniors, and seniors. The pairs are in different grades to resolve conflict with any grade specific activities done in their advisories, such as class meetings.

”It is a school priority to continue to cultivate a community that fosters a culture of belonging and collaboration,” Linsey said. Breen added that she feels responsible to support relationships between students.  “I want [freshmen] to feel that this is home for them and… welcomed,” she explained.

Not every freshman has siblings or friends who already attend AHS, Linsey noted. These are the kids the program intends to reach, in order to provide an upperclassmen support system to incoming students. Mentors and freshmen first meet during freshmen orientation so that they are familiar with each other throughout the entire school year.

“I think [it gives] perspective for some of the mentors,” said Linsey. “You forget what it’s like to be a ninth grader [and how] it’s really big when you get to high school.”

“I really like being a role model for others,” Lana Huynh, a junior and mentor, said. “The freshmen were very unsure and scared of what to do next, so [mentoring is] like being there as their older sibling in the school and [helping] them with things I’ve already experienced.”

Junior Daphne Hatzigiannis has also enjoyed her experience being a mentor. “It’s a relatively simple job,” she said. “So far, the most memorable part has been the initial tour we gave our group, [and] it honestly got me pretty excited for school to start.”

“When I was a freshman I thought that upperclassmen were helpful when figuring things out,” Huynh said. “It made my transition a lot easier.”

The leadership training, called Student Empowered Leadership (SEL), was designed by a group called Ignite Nation and funded by the Andover Coalition for Education. Ignite Nation collaborates with schools to help students feel connected and inspire students to lead and mentor their peers. There was a one day training session in January 2024 and a two day training session in June 2024, after the school year ended, to help prepare mentors for the following year.

The mentors learned how to facilitate conversations, how to be a great leader, how to act with integrity, and how to help with the transition process, Breen said. They also did trust-building exercises, skits, and fun games, such as a rock paper scissors tournament.

“It’s important [to] have this be a community to people, and the first step in that is building relationships,” said Breen. The First Year Mentor Program has been getting a lot of positive feedback from freshmen, mentors, and advisors. ”[The program] has really helped build connections across the AHS community,” Linsey concluded.