Title: “I Am More” Art Exhibit Brings Mental Health Awareness to AHS
Author: Tommy Kruecker-Green
Position: Opinion Editor
Category: Articles, Events
Date: MAY 06, 2024
Tags: art, art exhibit, I Am More, Mental Health
Description: The “I Am More” exhibit was hosted in Andover High School library this past month.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/20240326_080029-1.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/20240326_080029.jpg?resize=3056%2C4080&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Senior Harini Iyer looking at “I Am More” art exhibit.
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Minati Thota

The “I Am More” exhibit was hosted in Andover High School library this past month. AHS Health teacher Holly Breen arranged to have artist Amy Kerr’s work displayed as an opportunity to raise mental health awareness among students in an impactful way.

Kerr’s awareness that she was “more” than her mental health struggles led her to embark on a creative project and artistic mission that would help others as well as herself. She would hear people’s stories of challenges they faced and then draw their portraits in places of their choosing that reflected their interests and values, or their “happy places”. The resulting pastel and colored-pencil portraits along with the sitters’ stories have been displayed in a number of venues across New England, including hospitals, schools, malls, government buildings, and libraries.

Breen learned about the exhibit through The NAN Project, a group that speaks to the school’s junior health classes about mental health and supporting friends in need, and arranged to have it be exhibited at AHS. The exhibit creates an opportunity to promote conversations about difficult topics like mental health, disabilities, and addiction.

“I think it is important to help students learn in different ways. This learning experience helps students gain empathy for those who are living with different challenges,” said Breen.

To that end, Breen made sure that AHS health classes visited the exhibit in the library. Students were asked to write about which portraits they found most impactful. Other classes also went to view the exhibit and discussed what they saw. For many, it did what it was designed to do. It provided an opportunity to initiate dialogue about the complex realities of mental health challenges.

It might seem self-evident that we are more than the sum of our parts, and certainly much more than the challenges that we face. Yet, for many people facing mental health challenges, perspective is missing. Their fundamental being and intrinsic nature is overshadowed by the challenges they face. Amy Kerr’s brainchild, “I Am More,” brings that to the fore.