Title: Mrs. Breen Steps Up to New Ninth Grade Coordinator Job
Author: Maddox To
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community, Education, Faculty
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, featured, school
Description: After 23 years of teaching in the Health Department at Andover High School, Holly Breen has recently taken up the role of 9th grade coordinator.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/screenshot-2024-11-12-202910.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

After 23 years of teaching in the Health Department at Andover High School, Holly Breen has recently taken up the role of 9th grade coordinator.

For 23 years before her new role, Breen taught 11th and 12th graders, taking a one-year break during her time as a health teacher to focus on taking care of her children. Breen has also been the senior class advisor since last year, and she said she’s “always really actively involved in the student body and other activities outside of teaching at school.”

The 9th grade coordinator job was created last year, offering a position that Breen read and thought fit her perfectly. “Working with a variety of stakeholders like parents and students and teachers and community members [sounded amazing]… I absolutely love that part of my job,” she said.

Joanna Ganci was hired as 9th grade coordinator last year. So in the time being, Breen decided to get her administration degree so that when the opportunity became available again, she would be ready to apply for it.

Due in part to perfect timing, Ganci changed roles this year to become an assistant principal, leaving Breen—now qualified with an administration degree—ready to take the job.

Breen is now participating in administrative meetings to get properly integrated and comfortable in her new job position.

“It’s hard right now because I’m really doing both jobs,” Breen said. “Although Mr. D’Andrea has been awesome about trying to not let me get too overwhelmed because [one of] my main priorities right now are my classes.”

“Mrs. Breen is an awesome addition to the office and our staff administration,” Principal Jimmy D’Andrea said. “She’s been working very hard for the past couple of weeks to complete her set training for [the] qualifications of becoming the new 9th-grade administrator and we’re very lucky to have her.”

Even though Breen has shared the happy parts of taking up a job that she loves, she expressed that it’s still hard to let go of her longstanding history of education in the health department.

Breen said, “I will not be teaching any longer, which is bittersweet for me because I really love teaching. I just felt like it was time to broaden my outreach to the school and take on a different role in that way—to meet kids in a different way.”