Title: New APs Coming to AHS
Author: N/A
Position: N/A
Category: Articles, Community, Education, Humor
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, featured, school
Description: There are simply not enough APs!

There are simply not enough APs! It just feels like the amount of homework is just not enough for us students who are underworked and unoccupied with other activities. To remedy this issue, the College Board has announced a bunch of new APs. I’ll go through the ones that are coming to AHS this school year:

APULL: The class for students to enroll in during their senior year after taking APUSH (AP US History). The topic of this class is seduction, with the goal of helping students pull a girlfriend or boyfriend. However, designers are still struggling to get a higher average class grade than 0% in recent trials.

AP Brain Rot: In this introductory college-level skibidi studies course, students cultivate their understanding of brain rot from the founding of the Sigma to the present through analyzing historical sources and learning to make connections and craft historical arguments as they explore concepts like John Pork identity; doom scrolling, rizzing, and mewing; geography and the Grimace Shake environment; looksmaxxing and mogging; the role of Fanum Tax; brain rot from the screen to the ring to the pen to the king; brain rot and TikTok Rizz Party culture; and social structure of the Costco Guys.​​​​​​

AP Algebra II: In an effort to make more money—I mean, to enrich the skill sets of high school students—the College Board will introduce AP Algebra II, the prerequisite for the newly formed AP Precalculus course.

AP Personal Fitness: Focuses on the art of pretending to work out when the teacher walks by.

AP Computer $$$cience: I did NOT fumble on the keyboard. This course might look like a long-lost cousin of AP Computer Science A or AP Computer Science Principles, but it’s a completely different beast. I’m talking about a class designed for those future computer scientists who’ve got nothing but dollar signs in their eyes. The course kicks off with a unit composed of how to find a job in an oversaturated job market, with the last unit teaching students about how to handle a midlife crisis. What’s a computer science career without a dash of existential reflection?

AP Lunch: Lettuce not get carried away here, this class won’t be as easy as pie… the steaks in this class are very high. Let’s get to the meat of the situation: if you don’t get at least seconds during lunch or don’t have the money in your account to, you’re going to end up in a pickle. This AP isn’t for everyone, it’s going to cost a lot of cheddar. Eggscuse me with how corny I was milking all these puns just now; there is good news, despite how fishy this course may seem. If you get a 4 or 5, you walnut have to take lunch in college.

AP Calculus ABC: If you’re the kind of student who tackles AP Calculus BC with the grace of a baby giraffe on roller skates, and then makes an exit to AP Calculus AB, where you can’t help but yawn at the pace of the lessons, then AP Calculus ABC is perfect for you.
AP Pig Latin: In this in-depth course studying the ancient language of Igpay Atinlay, students will tackle the language’s rich vocabulary and complex grammar while covering various classic titles, such as *Evernay Onnagay Ivegay Ouyay Upyay*by Ickray Astleyyay.