Title: Seniors’ College Lists Longer This Year
Author: Minati Thota
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAR 04, 2024
Tags: college, college apps, seniors
Description: High school seniors from AHS and beyond are now applying to more colleges than ever.

High school seniors from AHS and beyond are now applying to more colleges than ever.

The class of 2024 has just wrapped up college application season, and according to Director of Guidance Aixa de Kelley, this year students applied to 9-10 schools on average. “We also had 28 students who applied to between 20-28 colleges, and two who applied to 30 colleges,” she said. According to a November 2023 article in Forbes, these staggering numbers are in tune with many graduating students applying to colleges all over the country, whose application numbers have been significantly increasing in the past years.

Edward Abbott, one of the guidance counselors, says that counselors recommend “a balanced list of 6-9 colleges,” yet very few students end up sticking to that number. “Students should see themselves attending each school on their list,” said de Kelley.

Abbott said this change can be attributed to several factors, one being the addition of over 100 new colleges to the Common Application this year. Seniors also appear to apply to more colleges out of fear of not getting accepted into any of them. “There are some schools popular with a decent amount of our students that have become more competitive over the years,” says Abbott.

Colleges allowing test-optional admissions, as well as AHS’s policy of not charging students for sending transcript packages, may also contribute to this cause, de Kelley provided. Some students also tend to apply to schools out of pressure either from parents or peers, lengthening their college list and consequently increasing their stress.

An interesting point of contrast could be the number of schools to which our faculty members applied during their senior year. Most teachers contacted for this article said they applied to three or four schools, which they found adequate at the time, considering the competition and the application fee. As de Kelley mentioned, application fees can add up quickly the more schools a student adds on. It can also take a toll on a student’s mental health to handle so many applications and deadlines when “at the end of the day, students can attend only one college.”

Abbott advises juniors to visit and research schools with an open mind and create “a balanced list of schools” in terms of selectivity, competitiveness, and financial fit. He also suggests that students keep in mind the other activities they will be involved in as they begin their senior year, such as clubs, new classes, sports, jobs, etc. Students should prioritize their mental health by having their college lists and personal statement drafts ready over the summer. This can alleviate a large amount of anxiety and distress around college application season.