Title: Swim captain reflects on value of sports as final season approaches
Author: Avery Slaughter
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Sports
Date: DEC 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, featured, school, Sports, swim team, swimming
Description: Luke Suh, a senior at Andover High School, is entering his final year on the boy’s swim team as a newly-appointed captain.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/suh-swimmer.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Luke Suh, a senior at Andover High School, is entering his final year on the boy’s swim team as a newly-appointed captain.

While he won’t be continuing to swim competitively in college, the sport has played a vital role in his relationships and identity as a person.

Though he had been swimming competitively since first grade, joining the school’s team in his freshman year was a big adjustment. The focus on community was very different from what he was used to on his various club teams, but the change was an overall positive one. While club swim had a more individualistic approach with an emphasis on personal skills and abilities, the AHS team focused on how they made each other better.

“On the high school team, I definitely feel like I’m doing something more than just for myself,” Suh said.

The emphasis on being a cohesive team assisted Suh in finding many friends at AHS through swimming. This was especially true when he was an underclassman. The shift up to high school was made significantly easier by his position on the team.

In addition to gaining a sense of community, competitive swimming has also helped him build character and leadership skills. As someone new to AHS, the sport assisted him in finding his place in the school. Alternatively, as a sophomore and junior, it allowed him to develop perseverance and discipline in an environment removed from academics. As a captain, that responsibility will be emphasized, but he plans to meet the new challenge head-on.

“I’m supposed to be a good example and all that does definitely build character,” Suh said.

Like many of the sports at AHS, the boy’s swim team is a large commitment. During the season, they meet every weekday for around an hour and frequently meet on weekends as well. Despite the long hours on the weekdays and the occasional meetings during Winter Break, Suh has kept a firmly optimistic attitude regarding the crowded schedule.

Suh said a student should do clubs and sports because they enjoy them, not because they feel obligated to do them. In addition to swimming, Suh also participates in DECA and the Quiz Team. Because of these three activities, he doesn’t have a surplus of free time. His mindset has helped him balance all of his responsibilities.

“It’s a commitment that you make,” Suh said, “and so I just tell myself that I’ve decided to do this, and I’m going to do my best with whatever I’m assigned to do.”

While he still loves swimming, Suh won’t be continuing his competitive career in college. Regardless, he will continue to swim as a recreational activity. It helps him maintain his physical health, but, more importantly, there is another major benefit he gains from it.

“I’m doing [swim] because I enjoy it,” Suh said. “So I don’t care how much time I have to spend or how much sleep I lose. I don’t care. It’s just about doing well.”