Title: Theater Guild Presents You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown on Time Crunch
Author: Areeta Faiz
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 18, 2025
Tags: music, musical, theater, theatre, writing
Description: The cast and crew of Andover High School’s You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown grappled with a tight deadline typical of a musical in the spring.

The cast and crew of Andover High School’s *You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown* grappled with a tight deadline typical of a musical in the spring. This year, they performed their yearly show on May 8th, 9th, and 10th.

*You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown* is a musical based on the popular comic strip *Peanuts*, featuring familiar characters and a relatively small cast. Auditions ended up being held at the end of March, leaving about a month for the group to finalize their set, blocking, lines, and choreography.

According to the show’s director Susan Choquette, there are several reasons for this turnaround.

“When we participate in the Drama Festival, we never know how far in the process we’re going to get, [which] delays the start of the spring show,” she said, adding, “The Collins Center gets very, very busy in the spring, since a lot of dance studios do their recitals here.”

Other seasonal events include AP testing and junior prom. “It is a challenging time to put a show together, no matter what you choose,” Choquette said.

The last time the Theater Guild performed a spring musical was 2021, slightly off schedule due to the pandemic. “We do a musical in the spring every four years, and other times we usually just do a regular play,” said Nina Bond, a longtime theater participant and sophomore playing Sally Brown.

“A regular [musical in the fall] takes about three months to rehearse and put together,” said sophomore Grace Armstrong, who took a break from her typical athletics to pursue the role of Lucy Van Pelt. As a principal character, Armstrong and others are required to stay at school for up to four hours nearly every day of the week. “I had to be off-book very, very quickly,” she said.

“I’ve been going over my lines, every day, every night, and making sure I’m prepared for every rehearsal,” Bond said prior to the show’s debut.

“There’s a lot of material, but we’ve been good about it,” said Gall Shapira, a sophomore who played Marcy in the ensemble. Shapira brought up another challenge regarding their roles: “We’re playing children, so we’ve been told that they move differently. Their facial expressions, their mannerisms are different, and we have to sort of embody that.”