Title: Warrior Friends Grows Friendships at AHS
Author: Diya Manikandan
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Clubs, Community
Date: DEC 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, Clubs, featured, profile, school, students, warriors
Description: Warrior Friends is a completely student-run organization, aside from occasional assistance from gym teacher and advisor, William Beauchesne.

Warrior Friends is a completely student-run organization, aside from occasional assistance from gym teacher and advisor, William Beauchesne. Its members work towards helping neurotypical and neurodivergent groups form connections. The leadership committee meets weekly to decide activities and plans for the next club meeting. So far, Warrior Friends members have introduced themselves and gotten to know each other, played games, colored, and most recently, had a kickball tournament.

According to a [Harvard Health](https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/what-is-neurodiversity-202111232645) article on neurodiversity, the word “neurodiverse” refers to “the diversity of all people, but it is often used in the context of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), as well as other neurological or developmental conditions” (Baumer).

Club president Jordan Shirley said, “I hope to normalize differences between people. I feel like people see certain individuals in the hallways and call them weird, but they are as normal as everyone else.”

“The thing that I’ve noticed the most is the diversity of the population of students at school,” said Beauschesne. “Seeing some students be able to make friendships with certain other groups of students has been very gratifying in terms of developing friendships.”

Members of the Warrior Friends appreciate opportunities to meet new friends and make the neurodiverse community feel welcome. “[Warrior Friends] is a really cool experience to help people and make new connections,” said sophomore Samantha Cashman.

Even from the few meetings held so far, familiarity is already forming between club members. “The biggest growth I’ve seen, as the weeks have gone by, is that just by meeting once a week, friendships are starting to establish and grow,” Beauchesne said. “This isn’t just in H Block; I’ve noticed this in the cafeteria, and in class, so people are now more connected with the neurodiverse community and they’re able to recognize them and include them in more.”

Senior club member Christina Preston encourages students to join the club. “It’s an amazing opportunity to build relationships and make these amazing kids feel seen and loved, and make them feel like a part of the school community,” she said.

*Follow Warrior Friends at @warrior_friends_forever to get a glimpse of the club’s activities and see how you can join!*