Title: Winning AHS Physics Team Returns From Germany Trip
Author: Tommy Kruecker-Green
Position: Opinion Editor
Category: Articles
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: Seven Andover High students, known as the SPEEDers, returned on September 30 from a two-week research trip to DESY in Hamburg and CERN in Geneva.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/2024-09-13_beamline4schools_feuerloschubung_mm-4318.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

A team of seven students from Andover High School, known as the SPEEDers (Smith-Purcell Effect Emission Determination), returned on September 30 from a two-week research trip to DESY (Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron) in Hamburg, Germany, and later CERN, in Geneva, Switzerland.

The team—Theo Buckridge, Richard Chen, Samyak Jain, Jaiden Li, Daniel Lin, Hari Palaniyappan, and Robert Zhu—earned this opportunity after winning CERN’s “Beamline for Schools” competition with their proposal to study Smith-Purcell radiation, a phenomenon where light is emitted when electron beams pass over specialized metal gratings.

“It was a lot,” Zhu reflected about arriving at the DESY campus. “All the people there [know] what they’re talking about… it was tons of fun, it was really interesting, but it was a lot”. The days were indeed long—sometimes stretching to 12 hours in the lab—but the team acknowledged they learned a lot. They absorbed knowledge far beyond their original experiment’s scope, diving into engineering principles, electrical systems, and accelerator physics. Even when the learning wasn’t strictly necessary for their research, their curiosity drove them to understand everything they could about the facility’s operations and they would frequently ask questions.

Over their two weeks at DESY, the team detected around 2 million events—each one being an electron passing through the experimental area. This generated roughly 10-100 gigabytes of data that needed processing. They used specialized DESY software to crunch these numbers, as well as ROOT, a software framework from CERN. The analysis, and the search for Smith Purcell radiation, is ongoing. In addition, the team spent two days at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland, where they explored the facility and visited sites such as the CERN antimatter factory.

The SPEEDers agreed that the experiment they conducted was not necessarily the aspect of the trip that left the greatest impression; of more importance and resonance was the extensive practical knowledge gained at both DESY and CERN, the chance to encounter and interact with the international scientific community directly, and the memorable sights they experienced.

When not working in the lab, the team took time to explore Hamburg. They visited churches and museums in Hamburg, including an old World War II bunker and an out-of-commission particle accelerator/collider. At DESY, a leading German research center specializing in particle physics, researchers and staff showed them how to use the equipment, analyze data, and taught them the fundamentals of experimental particle physics.

The experience certainly left an impact on Buckridge. “Since freshman year, I have been interested in physics,” Buckridge remarked. “It was my dream to go into the field as a career, but I didn’t take it seriously in my head. For me, being able to go to DESY and work alongside experienced researchers turned dream into a reality.”