Title: World Language Week Brings Global Films to AHS Students
Author: Arshiaa Prem
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 06, 2025
Tags: film, movies, writing
Description: Each year, the World Language Department hosts World Language Week, an event celebrating different languages and cultures.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/img_1882.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Each year, the World Language Department hosts World Language Week, an event celebrating different languages and cultures. As part of this tradition, students watch a carefully selected international film to experience storytelling from around the world. This year’s choice, *The Door Into Summer*, is a Japanese film chosen to reflect student interest in anime, manga, and Japan, especially following a school trip to Japan in February.

The department selects films in languages not taught at school, helping students hear a new language and observe how foreign films differ from American productions. According to AHS foreign language program advisor Peter Hall, who is involved in the selection process, past films shown include *CODA*, about a family that used American Sign Language to communicate, *Dangal*, an Indian movie about wrestling, and last year’s German film, *The Teacher’s Lounge*, which received mixed reactions but led to interesting discussions.

“The movie lets students hear another language and see how international films often have less predictable endings than American films,” said Hall.

According to Hall, the selection process considers multiple factors, including school appropriateness, cultural representation, discussion topics, and ratings from sites like Rotten Tomatoes and the Academy Awards. The department aims to choose movies students have not already seen, which is why student input has not been part of the process before—but it may be considered in the future.

Hall noted that *The Door Into Summer* was chosen because of its modern themes like robotics and artificial intelligence, which match student interests.

Freshman Mo Gearin said it “felt like a fever dream,” while Freshman Aarna Shah called it “fun and interesting to watch” and noticed its unique filming style. “It had a lot more transitions than what I’m used to,” she said.

Sophomore Arnav Chandrasekhar thought the plot twists were exciting and said the movie helped him learn more about Japanese culture. “I noticed there was like a blueish, mellow filter on the movie,” he said. “That was my favorite part of watching it.” Chandrasekhar also added, “I think this year’s movie was better than the German one last year.”

Freshman Reut Cohen-Yashar added that watching a foreign film showed her “how different movies can be in different cultures.”

Students have responded well to the event in the past, though opinions on each film vary. “Some movies are more popular than others,” Hall said. “Last year’s German film wasn’t a favorite, but it got students thinking about new topics.”